we vote no on the idea of money as the root of all evil. but it does turn out to cause quite a bit of trouble in relationships  and when it does you can likely point a finger toward one specific financial issue: debt.more than half of all couples go into their partnerships with debt, and 40 percent say that this financial burden ends up having a negative impact on their relationships, according to a new couples &amp; money study by fidelity. not only do couples disagree on whose responsibility the debt is  49 percent contradict one another as to exactly whos on the hook  couples who are concerned about paying down debt are also more likely to suffer from poor communication, fighting and difficulty having conversations about money.and those things portend more trouble. according to a study from utah state university, fighting about finances is a top predictor of divorce, with couples who fight frequently being 30 percent more likely to divorce than those who rarely argue. thankfully, the next time you feel a quarrel brewing, you dont have to give in to temptation, and you may even be able to stop your fight  along with your debt in its tracks.understand why money is so stressfulrarely do couples walk into a divorce attorneys office and announce, we want a divorce because were having money problems, but ultimately, money is at the root of many divorces, explains bernard g. post, new york city matrimonial attorney. when you cant communicate about money, then neither party is going to recognize when theyre living beyond their means, or when you need to cut back on your expenses, he says.for so many of us, its the unknowns that cause the most stress  how will i be able to pay this down? how much debt do i have? whats the interest rate? according to the federal reserve, americans underestimate how much student loan debt they carry by 25 percent and underestimate their credit card debt by 37 percent.in some cases, a couples debt might be so high that they find themselves worried about affording something basic, like a light bill, because their credit card payments  are so high, post says. but in other situations, couples may actually go into debt in an effort to save a marriage thats already in trouble, post explains. a spouse might think, were unhappy because we have an old car, so they go out and buy a brand new car to cheer themselves up, but no one stops to ask, can we afford this?.check your egos at the doorcouples with money problems who want to save their relationship should immediately try to get over any social embarrassment they may feel when they scale back their lifestyle, post says. oftentimes couples will hesitate to sell their nice cars, or to give up their membership at a country club or gym because its important for them to keep up appearances that everything is normal and happy. theyre worried that people will talk, and say, oh, they went broke. but if you continue to keep up a standard of living you cannot afford, youre going to find yourself in a courtroom, headed for divorce, bankruptcy, or both.get everything out on the tableits easy to get lost in your finances when you have various cards with differing interest rates and balances, so organization is key, says elisabeth kozack, vp of product innovation and customer experience at marcus by goldman sachs. once you figure out exactly whats owed and to whom, you and your partner can sit down and talk about which method youll use to pay down your debt. two of the most common are the snowball and avalanche methods. with the snowball method, youd start by paying off your debts starting with the smallest balances first. this would allow you to see some early wins, close some outstanding accounts, and start to build up your debt-paying momentum. with the debt avalanche method, youd pay down your debts starting with the highest interest rate loan first, regardless of the balance owed. this method allows you to save the most money on interest, thereby helping you get out of debt more quickly. you can also look into debt consolidation, which would mean combining your existing debt into a single new debt, kozack says. along with potentially only having one payment, debt consolidation could result in a lower monthly payment and a lower interest rate.seek professional helpwhether you see a financial planner, a couples counselor, or both, its time to see someone asap if you find yourself fighting about money often, says brent weiss, cfp and co-founder at financial services firm facet wealth. a financial planner can help you understand how you can best use your assets to help you achieve the goals you set out with. a couples counselor can help reveal things you didnt know about your relationship with money, and your relationship with one another. both professionals can help you see how some of your relationship problems may have been compounded by your financial worries.counselors and advisors are also great at helping couples learn to compromise over certain things, since most couples seem to have unlimited goals and limited finances. if you want to put your kid in the fancy day care, maybe that means youll need to put off buying your dream home for a couple of years. these are hard decisions, but youll never be able to make them if you cant have honest conversations. and if you try to buy all the goals, youre going to overextend yourself, and then things are going to get bad. so its nice to have someone walking you through all of these decisions.consider a prenup or postnupone way of making sure youll stick to your financial goals is to put them in writing. if youre not married yet and money is a source of stress for your relationship, look into getting a prenuptial agreement, post says. as part of the agreement, both parties are required to disclose all of their assets and liabilities. so if your partner has been evasive when you ask them exactly how much student debt they have, a prenup enables you to find out the details. in this contract, you can also lay any ground rules for debt repayment, establishing a whats mine is mine, whats yours is yours agreement if desired. if youve already walked down the aisle and money pressures are threatening the relationship, you can look into a post-nuptial agreement that can set all the same ground rules after the fact. no one really talks about the postnup that often, but sometimes even in good marriages you have economic distrust, and this can solve those problems, post says.focus on the positive futureand once youre on the straight and narrow, make sure to take the time to dwell on where all this new economic strength is going to take you. notes weiss: if youre behind the 8-ball with your debt, it can feel like money is toxic. but if you work out a plan, suddenly money becomes amazing. it becomes the thing that allows you to achieve these amazing goals.with kathryn tugglehow to get out of debthow to pay off your loans using the debt avalanche methodhow to get out of debt and build a wealth snowballhow this couple paid off $65,000 in credit card debt and student loans in five yearshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow the 50-20-30 rule can help you get out of debt and save moneywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

hes the sweetest monster weve ever seen.the first time we found titan when he ran away, thats what the women whod caught him running down the street and leashed him up said. the year-old great pyrenees/german shepherd mix, littermate to our own dog, had jumped his owners fence and wed gone in search of him.nearly a year later he was out again, and this time his owner was done. whoever finds him can keep him, said their facebook post late this spring. we only knew titan from a few puppy playdates, having been connected through the farmer who gave us cash. the chicken farmer we knew from buying her delicious eggs at the market; when our loss of a dog coincided with her great pyr livestock guardian escaping (it must run in the family!) and coming back later to have a litter of beautiful puppies, it seemed fate that we took little cassius thunderpaws (cash) home. i met up with titans person a couple of times to let the boys romp, and stayed in touch on facebook to admire dog photos as both our boys grew.titan was as loving and exuberant as our cash, and maybe even bigger. (im frequently stopped on walks and asked if i need a saddle to ride my pony.) but in a real-life example of nature vs. nurture, titan was un-trained and un-neutered while cash started training at eight weeks old. but i didnt realize how well-behaved cash was till titan came to visit. titan didnt have a bad bone in his body; he just didnt know. he couldnt walk on a leash, would jump on people he liked (which is everyone), and was basically the real-life bull in a china shop.but when i learned he was roaming busy city streets we had to go get him. it didnt take long, asking everyone nearby if theyd seen a big brown dog running loose, for my husband and i to find him in an alley and get him home. his owner relinquished him gratefully.and now what? i asked myself. we couldnt keep him. running an airbnb out of our home would make it impossible to have a giant wildling on the loose  he was a freight train when he wasnt tethered or in a (giant) crate  and i wasnt physically up to the job of training such a strong, willful dog. we had virtually no back yard, and i couldnt let him run off-leash in our nearby park like his trained brother for much-needed exercise.that left re-homing him. whats the old saying about trying to sell a ketchup popsicle to a man in a white suit? thats what it felt like as i tried to wrangle someone into taking titan. free to good home: large male dog, puppy inside a ponys body. wreaks havoc and needs abundant exercise but you wont be able to walk him. behind on veterinary care. cries if you go out of his sight, pees when hes happy. but i promise hes a hunka burning love, guys, and so smart! ok i didnt say that exactly, but i had to be truthful lest titan end up on the run again.finding a home for titanthere were no takers. i grew more desperate, pleading with rescues, posting on facebook groups for great pyr owners, and writing everyone i knew who might help. i cried every time i looked at his big, sweet face. titan had so much love to give.id learned by now that rescue organizations are overwhelmed, absolutely flooded, with unwanted dogs. titan had to compete for a spot with untold numbers of pups whose people had given them up. i wanted to launch a new hashtag campaign to balance the good intentions of #adoptdontshop. please, by all means adopt a rescue if you will commit to the dog. but where is the accountability for owners that dump their dogs? where is the #dogsareforkeeps campaign? i knew all those abandoned dogs needed help as much as titan did and i couldnt help all of them, but i could help this one, and i doubled down.finally one of my can you help find titan a home? emails clicked. a local media personality who had a big following and was a passionate advocate for rescues shared my titan post. it got in front of somebody who knew somebody who worked with a local nonprofit called adopt me! bluegrass pet rescue that partnered with luther luckett correctional complex outside of louisville, kentucky, on a prison training program. it would be perfect  titan could be paired with someone who had all the time in the world to work with him. the connection made, i poured all my efforts into getting them to take him.look at his potential, i pleaded, sending photos and videos of his brothers off-leash heel and long-distance recall. i knew titan could do this too, with enough training. happily, the folks at the rescue agreed to meet with us.and the sweet monster won their hearts as swiftly as he had won ours. i couldnt help sobbing as i drove away after turning him over to the wonderful women, but knew he was on the right path. and as soon as i saw a progress photo from the prison i could breathe easy.titan goes to prisontitan was paired with douglas hall, a 40-year-old whod been incarcerated nine years before and was now part of the paws behind bars training program. he, too, saw the sweet monsters potential. in a written interview midway through training (the prison declined my request for a visit), titans response to training has been really remarkable, hall told nbc news better. he is very smart picking up a new command. his drive to please and work for treats is impressive.hall could offer what titan needed: undivided attention, and patience. titan and i spend almost every hour of the day together, he said. starting before sun-up, when i feed him or take him out to potty titan is always in training, he went on. everything was an opportunity for titan to learn how to behave outside of prison  how to eat without guarding his food, how to wait at exposed thresholds and not cross without his handler, how to walk with a loose leash, not jump on people, not run up to other dogs, ignore distractions. each day i try [to] work on composure, visitor control, walk, heel, sit, down, stay, and come, hall said.but it wasnt just titan who benefited. titan is my emotional support animal, hall said. he took titan to an aa meeting, where the dogs loving nature was a hit. titan is very popular with everyone on the yard, he added. everyone wants to pet him and see him.this program helps inmates on the yard who may be dealing with hardships in their life, hall said. its therapy for everyone. and it does so much more than train dogs for adoption, he went on. we are teaming up with the community to save dogs and help other families that need a therapy, service, or emotional support dog. each time a dog is adopted [i] feel that the community is giving us, the inmate, a second chance.each time a dog is adopted [i] feel that the community is giving us, the inmate, a second chance.paws behind bars also sparked a passion in hall. he didnt know how to hold a leash when he began the program, he said, but after training 60 dogs, including some for therapy and service work, he wants to become a licensed trainer when he is released, he said. i would like to one day work with a non-profit to put therapy dogs in schools to help with  gun violence, he said.there will be many more dogs to train in the meantime; hall is serving 25 years. in july of 2003 i injured my left knee at work, he explained. i was going to one doctor to the next. each one would write more pain pills out for me. ...i did not know how addiction would take over my life. in january of 2006 i agreed to drive my co-offender to rob a drug dealer in madison county, kentucky. my co-offender he killed the woman who lived there. ...this horrible crime should never have happened and i am remorseful to all that was hurt that day.while it can be hard to see a dog hes bonded leave, my hopes and dreams for titan is to go to a family who loves him more than i do, hall said. the family will use the training  so that he can go out for walks or a baseball game. so the family and others can enjoy this big happy dog. titan will instantly put a smile on your face and make any family happier.on paroletitan finished the training program this summer and we went to see him at an adoption event. though the change in his behavior was nothing short of miraculous  i could walk him on a leash!  the families attending the event mostly veered away from the great big dog in favor of smaller pups. he went back to the prison.then, another small miracle. titan went to work on a film project.midwest animal training in cincinnati, another brilliant program  this one run by megan-kate hoover  finds rescue dogs for work in movies and commercials. she trains them for the project and fosters them until theyre adopted, she told nbc news better.with a background in wildlife rehabilitation and veterinary medicine beginning in childhood  she started volunteering at age nine  hoover turned to animal training when an auto-immune disease prevented her from attending veterinary school. after a career that spanned several states and countries, and animals ranging from dolphins to elephants, she was recruited to work at the cincinnati zoo where she became curator of animal development and training. thats when the film commission in cincinnati came in search of someone to evaluate a film set for animal safety. and oh, by the way, they needed a dog  and for the dog to be trained in 10 days  for the film project.at a rescue, hoover said, i found a little dog just pulled from a puppy mill  he had never been out of a cage in his adult life. after she trained him for the project he found a new home  with her mother in law. thats how this all got started, she said. now im so busy doing films and commercials that i quit the zoo a few years ago.help wanted: naughty dogenter titan. a local photographer shooting a promotional piece for a new video venture needed a family dog who could play being bad when a new baby comes along. for five weeks on her cincinnati area farm, hoover worked with titan teaching him to perform for the shoot.she quickly learned he needed a lot of exercise before work. otherwise he could not function, she said. the other key? allowing him to be a dog. he reminded me of dolphins, you have to meet them where theyre at, they want to have fun.  if it wasnt fun for him he was done. she also couldnt train him when he was hungry.luckily he was one of the smartest dogs ive ever worked with, hoover said. insanely intelligent. once he learned what i wanted, and once i learned how he needed to be communicated with it was so easy. she trained him to play the naughty dog who puts his head on the babys chair while the baby was eating (his brother cash, meanwhile, rests his head on the dining table every night while we eat with no prompting so maybe its a family trick!), steal toys and blankets and tears them up, even suck on a pacifier. the spot ends with the mom sitting on the ground with the baby. titan, she said, lays down and puts his head on her lap as if to say hes sorry.love at first sightmeanwhile hoover was preparing to sell her farm, jane fields (who requested privacy, so her name has been changed) came to see the place. her family had three big rescue dogs at home already and didnt have plans for a fourth. but on her second visit to the farm, i was out at the barn and we were talking to [megan-kates husband] and she brought titan out. it was just love at first sight, she said. hes like a big teddy bear. he was so sweet and my son loved him and i loved him, and my husband has always loved big dogs.since they were going to buy the farm and have all this space, they decided to give titan a shot and she took him home for a weekend trial with the rest of the canine family. thats all it took for titan to work his magic. all four dogs got along fabulously, fields said. i dont want say i have a favorite, but its hard not to be in love with this dog. hes well trained too. were just really thrilled.titan  whos now called otis, or odie for short  starts his day at 6:00 am, like he did in prison. but now hes on the fields five-acre lot where theyre still living until the farm purchase is complete. quickly trained to their invisible fence, titan/odie loves going in the woods, fields said. he loves barking at the squirrels and digging and running around playing with the german shepherd.hes living a dogs life, the life he deserves, thanks to a series of people willing to give a sweet monster a chance.more from betterwhat your dogs behavior says about youforget what youve heard. being a cat lady is healthy.how dogs teach us to stop worrying and just be happywhy dogs are good for our health and help us cope with lifewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

u.s consumers are set to spend between as much as $720.89 billion this holiday season, according to the nrf, and while candy may not make up the biggest piece of the spending pie, it will certainly factor in.candystore.com notes that shoppers will spend $2 billion on candy this holiday. the site also did an  in-depth review of sweet tooth preferences by state, ranking the most beloved christmas candies from alaska to wyoming.the sugary favorites vary in popularity from place to place, but youll notice some heavily recurring #1 treats including reindeer corn (aka candy corn with a christmas makeover), candy canes, reeses cup minis, m&amp;ms, peppermint bark, chocolate santas and starburst.we consulted registered dietitian nutritionist suzanne dixon to learn how these candies compare to one another in terms of nutritional value (or lack thereof). find your favorite on our list. you may be pleasantly surprised to find that according to a nutritionist, its not so bad.holiday favorites ranked from better to worst (in that order)hersheys kisseswhen it comes to choosing a sweet treat, fat is your friend. and dixon gives this holiday favorite a thumbs up, mainly, she notes, because they arent pure sugar.they contain a little bit of fat, which means the bodys insulin response after eating them isnt as strong as it would be if you ate the same calories as pure simple sugar, dixon says. fat slows the absorption of glucose from the gi tract and blunts the insulin response to some degree. they also have a few grams of protein, which again, will help blunt the insulin response, especially if they are eaten on an empty stomach.a serving of hersheys kisses is seven pieces, which contains 160 calories, 16 grams added sugars, 9 grams of fat and 2 grams protein. if you stick to one serving, you wont exceed the aha recommended sugar guidelines (by which men should consume no more than 150 calories per day/37.5 grams or 9 teaspoons  and women should consume no more than 100 calories per day/25 grams or 6 teaspoons),\" says dixon.that said, even if you stick to the guidelines, youre getting an awful of lot of saturated fat with these candies. the 6 grams saturated fat is nearly one-third of the recommended daily intake for this type of fat, says dixon. on a good note, some of this saturated fat comes from the chocolate itself, which [some research shows] isnt as bad for your heart as saturated fat that comes from animal foods such as steak and high-fat dairy.so may want to stick with 2-3 pieces when that sweet tooth comes calling. the good news is the act of individually unwrapping each kiss will force you to slow down, eat more mindfully and help prevent overeating.chocolate santaschocolate santas are basically big hersheys kisses, which means they also top the list. dixon notes that milk chocolate santas (there are dark chocolate and white chocolate varieties, but these are by far the most common kind) are nearly identical to hersheys kisses in terms of nutritional value per volume/weight of candy. but brownie points if you choose the dark chocolate variety!the downside of these is [the potential to] eat the entire santa in one sitting, says dixon. if you split santa among at least one or two friends, youll do fine with this option  unless, of course, its a super-sized chocolate santa.reeses cup ministhe other top scorer in dixons book are reeses peanut butter cup minis because, like hersheys kisses, they dont contain solely sugar.a serving of reeses peanut butter cup minis is 3 pieces, which is 130 calories, 13 grams of added sugars, 7 grams of fat and 3 grams of protein (thank you peanut butter), says dixon. if you stick to one serving, you wont exceed added sugar guidelines.but, dixon caveats that the delicious flavor profile can make it hard to stop at just one serving. one downside of this candy, in my mind, is the addictiveness of the chocolate-peanut butter combo. i have noticed, both personally and in people to whom ive provided nutrition counseling, that when you add a little bit of savory or salty flavor to chocolate, people eat a lot more of it, she says. if you can stick to a serving, or even two servings, you will just barely exceed added sugar intake guidelines. but if you sit by the candy bowl and eat ten of these (easy to do for many people), youre really consuming quite a bit of added sugar, total calories and saturated fat in the form of reeses, which isnt good for anyones health.instead of keeping an entire bowl or bag around, take out one serving and then put the candy somewhere out of sight to avoid overdoing it.m&amp;ms and peppermint barkm&amp;ms and peppermint bark stack up similarly: not the best choice in the candy jar, but certainly not the worst.both m&amp;ms and peppermint bark contain more sugar and less fat and protein compared with plain milk chocolate (hersheys kisses and milk chocolate santas), [as well as those with peanut butter such as] reeses peanut butter cups, says dixon. however, they dont provide the intense sugar load of reindeer corn, which people tend to overeat.what keeps these treats from a making the nice list is their usage of artificial coloring. peppermint bark typically contains red 40 (or a similar red color) and m&amp;ms contain a number of artificial colors due to the candy coating, says dixon.though dixon notes that its challenging to prove that the artificial dyes used in these and other candies are harmful to general long-term health, studies have shown that there is a valid allergy concern. in the absence of compelling safety data, i advise people to limit [intake of artificially dyed foods]. if you dont have an allergy, i dont think small amounts are harmful; but again, most people are eating far more of these compounds than previously realized, she says.dixon recommends opting for natural peppermint bark, which you can find on natural candy store, or, if youre up for a challenge, you can make your own at home. this year im attempting this recipe for dark chocolate peppermint bark.starburstdixon says that starburst also fall somewhere in the middle. they lack the protein and fat that some other holiday candies contain, which means you are essentially eating pure sugar, plus they also have artificial coloring.what they do have going for them? individual wrappers and a chewy texture. while they are pure sugar, they tend to take longer to eat and people dont usually eat multiple servings in a sitting, says dixon, who surely has never seen me encounter a tub of starburst (i will eat them all). starburst candies are quite chewy and unless youre really focused on chewing them, youre not as likely to go through them as quite quickly as reindeer corn.candy canesat just 45 calories per cane (and the fact that it takes you a substantial amount of time to eat, so youre less likely to overindulge), this isnt the worst choice. but again, candy canes are pure sugar. in addition to the sugar factor, dixon says the other problem is again, the controversial artificial coloring. (though you can find natural candy canes, which are dye-free, at natural candy store.)an even better choice would be to opt for a mini candy cane, which will still give you a dose of minty sweetness but for just 17.5 calories and 3.5 grams of sugar.reindeer cornjust like candy corn, reindeer corn (the yuletide version of halloweens staple), is a polarizing sweet. i, for one, find it disgusting and im surprised theyre not only edible, but enjoyed by many. if youre like me and think these are absolutely foul, then youre better off. i put these toward the terrible end of the scale for two main reasons, says dixon. one, they are pure sugar. two, they are very easy to overeat.but candy corn fans will be happy to hear that, as with the rest on this list, if you stick to a single serving size youre not going to be doing too much damage.they are pure sugar, but a serving size is modest, notes dixon. a 30-piece serving clocks in at only 130 calories, but also delivers 28 grams of sugar.because these candies contain nothing but sugar, you get a very significant, rapid glucose load pouring into your blood when you eat them,\" she says. \"this means you get an intense insulin response, which is taxing on your pancreas and more likely to lead to a sugar crash about hour after you eat them.if you overdo it on the candy, dont beat yourself up, just resetwe get it, the candy bowl at the office can be tempting (especially when those afternoon munchies creep up). if you go a bit crazy with the candy, its okay.weve all had those days when we feel as if 50 percent of our calories came out of the candy bowl. if this happens, dont sweat it, dixon says. this happens, and theres no good reason to beat yourself up for failing when faced with tempting candy treats. in fact, research shows, the harder you are on yourself in terms of your body loathing, the less likely you are to stick to your healthy living plan.instead, focus your energy on making healthy choices moving forward, being sure to drink plenty of water and avoiding added sugars.try a reset for the following few days after candy overload, says dixon. avoid added sugars completely, skip the candy bowl, and give your liver, pancreas, brain and body a break from the candy.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the weather outside this time of year can be seriously frightful for your scalp. many people experience seborrheic dermatitis or dandruff  the medical names for a dry, flaky scalp  this time of year.the external air in the wintertime tends to be drier or less humid than in warmer months, which tends to have a drying effect on our skin, including the scalp, explains shari hicks-graham, md, dermatologist in columbus, ohio.whats more, indoor heating systems pump out dry air, so they have a similar effect on your scalp, while hot showers can also exacerbate dryness during the colder weather season, says hicks-graham. scalp dryness can turn into flakiness when we brush our hair or rub or scratch our head, she adds.some people are prone to seborrheic dermatitis year-round, notes lindsey bordone, md, dermatologist and assistant professor of dermatology at columbia university medical center who specializes in hair disorders. thats because this condition has a lot of different causes.seborrheic dermatitis is often referred to as dandruff and can be the result of genetics, the environment, and your diet, says mona mofid, md, dermatologist at sharp grossmont hospital in san diego. in some cases, there is an overgrowth of a yeast  malassezia  that normally lives on the skin but may be in excess.bordone says stress can also contribute to seborrheic dermatitis or dandruff. (while seborrheic and dandruff are essentially the same, dandruff only affects the scalp, while seborrheic dermatitis can cause skin irritation and flaking on other areas, like your ears, eyebrows, beard region and upper chest.)luckily, you have a variety of treatment options to soothe your scalp, starting with natural solutions.coconut and olive oil are very good for the scalp, says debra jaliman, md, dermatologist in new york city and author of skin rules. coconut oil is naturally antibacterial and extremely nourishing thanks to the vitamins and essential fatty acids it contains, while olive oil is full of antioxidants that help protect the skin when applied topically. a good trick is to apply one of those oils to the scalp overnight once a week, or even once a month, to give your scalp a hydrating treatment, says mofid.another natural remedy you can try: apple cider vinegar, which is antibacterial and anti-fungal, says jaliman. (just make sure to dilute acv with water before putting it near your scalp.)beyond natural remedies, there are plenty of shampoos targeted to treat seborrheic dermatitis. some ingredients to look for which can help soothe a flaky scalp include ketoconazole, salicylic acid, selenium sulfide, and 2% pyrithione zinc, says paul cellura, md, dermatologist at tribeca skin center in new york city. these ingredients are contained in many of the available over-the-counter anti-dandruff shampoos. glycolic acid, which is commonly used in facial chemical peels, can also be very effective on the scalp when used in modest amounts, says hicks-graham.as for what not to do: avoid hair products that may be drying, such as hair sprays and shampoos with a high alcohol content, advises paradi mirmirani, md, dermatologist and director of hair disorders for kaiser permanente in northern california. the higher up on the ingredient list, the more of the product it contains. its also best to steer clear of shampoos formulated for oily scalps (these are often labeled as cleansing or clarifying) because they can contain harsh ingredients that can dry out your scalp, says mirmirani.the best shampoos for a dry, flaky scalptake care of your dandruff with one of these dermatologist-approved shampoos. but keep this in mind: if over-the-counter products fail to fully control the scalp irritation, it may be wise to pay a visit to a board-certified dermatologist for further evaluation, says cerulla.livso moisturizing shampoo, $19, amazonhicks-graham is a fan of this shampoo because it has a gentle sulfate-free formula that still lathers and feels great on your hair. xlyitol in the formula fights yeast, while salicylic acid, glycolic acid and willow bark extract exfoliate and soothe.neutrogena t/gel therapeutic shampoo, $7.99, targetcoal isnt just for those who made the naughty list this holiday season. ths shampoo, which cerulla likes, relies on 1% coal tar to ease flaking and scalp irritation associated with seborrheic dermatitis, dandruff and scalp psoriasis.nizoral anti-dandruff shampoo, $14.89, targetcerulla also likes this drugstore shampoo, which is formulated with 1% ketoconazole to help reduce the amount of pityrosporum yeast on the scalp and cut down on inflammation, redness and scaly patches.dhs zinc shampoo, $12,74, amazonpowered by 2% pyrithione zinc to help control dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis symptoms, this shampoo is a favorite of mohids because its both affordable and available otc. for people who experience seborrheic dermatitis on the face or chest it can also be used as a wash and comes in a body wash option as well, she says.dermacare scalp anti-dandruff shampoo, $5.99, ultawith 1% pyrithione zinc and coconut oil, this shampoo offers a one-two punch against dandruff at an inexpensive price point. this shampoo helps to nourish dry itchy scalp and also helps to relieve it from irritation, says jaliman. its ph balanced to gently cleanse scalp and hair.head &amp; shoulders classic clean dandruff shampoo, $6.99, targetfor mild cases of seborrheic dermatitis, bordone says an otc dandruff shampoo like this one can be very effective. this classic formulas star ingredient is 1% pyrithione zinc, which helps improve flakiness and itchiness.next: best moisturizers for dry skin, according to these dermatologistswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

choosing the perfect gift for your co-workers  can be a challenge. you dont want to spend too much, get too personal, or heaven forbid, give something offensive to your workplace near and dearest. but that doesnt mean youre stuck with boring gift cards, baked goods and scented candles.after all, your friends at work are the ones who help you deal with the daily drama and challenges at the office, so treat them well! here, weve rounded up a list of eleven great options that make ideal gifts for your best work buds.better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.monogram journal, $18, anthropologiegive your colleague who has to-do lists, big ideas, and inspirational quotes jotted down on sticky notes all over her desk an upgrade with this gorgeous monogrammed notebook. each journal also comes complete with a pretty golden pen.kate spade travel mug, $18, amazonthis pretty personalized mug will keep your work friends java warm for hours  and keep others peoples hands off! if their initial isnt available, check out this monogram mug as an alternative.george &amp; viv gifting bar soap, $10, anthropologiethese beautifully wrapped guest soaps will be appreciated by anyone, especially a new homeowner. this is a nice little way to #treatyoself, while also serving a practical purpose.ladybug desktop vacuum, $9, amazonno, its not just a desktop decoration  this little ladybug is a vacuum cleaner, dust buster, and crumb cleaner-upper, all in one. its perfect for your coworker who always manages to spill something when they eat lunch at their desk.ecomoist screen cleaner and microfiber cloth, $10, amazonheres a must-have for anyone who uses a computer or phone at worki.e., everyone. this organic screen cleaner solution is gentle on your electronics, but removes all dirt, grease, and germs from your screens. plus its environmentally friendly and biodegradable.knit fingerless gloves, $15 for two pairs, amazonif you have a colleague whos always complaining how cold it is in the office (theres always that one!), this gift will be perfect. these crochet fingerless gloves allows her to type and file papers easily while keeping her hands warm in those sub-arctic office temperatures.mini cactus humidifier, $16, amazonperk up dull office decor with this adorable humidifier. powered by a usb port, this mini cactus helps you avoid dry/stuffy air, while preventing the transfer of germs as well as chapped hands, skin, and lips.tea fort loose tea starter set, starting at $20, amazonthis loose tea starter set is a thoughtful gift for your colleague who always has a warm cup of tea in hand. this pretty gift set includes a double-wall ceramic tumbler, matching lid, stainless steel infuser, as well as 10 pre-portioned loose leaf tea pouches.bento lunch box &amp; cutlery set, $35, food52your foodie friend at work who always packs insta-worthy lunches will greatly appreciate this bamboo bento box set from food52. its a cute and clever way to keep your sandwiches, salad, or snack safe and secure till lunch hour.ugly sweater knit can holder (+ a 6-pack), $7.99, container storein a pinch? grab a six pack of craft beer or flavored seltzer and dress up a can with a silly sweater. these fun and festive holders instantly upgrade your standard liquor or grocery store score. no one will know it was a last-ditch effort and your fave coworker will be perfectly accessorized at the next ugly sweater party.champagne boss set with saber, $80, thoughtfullywell file this one under splurge-worthy: if 2018 was a banner year for your company, take some time to appreciate your accomplishments  and thank your colleagues. this glamorous gift box contains everything you need for a year-end celebrations, including a champagne sager, wine bag, champagne flutes, sugar rimmer, and mimosa and bellini mixes.more holiday gift ideasunder $30: 11 thoughtful gifts if youre on a budgetholiday gifts and gadgets for the healthy home cook15 gadgets and gifts that will take your fitness routine to the next levelthe best workout shoes for women, according to fitness experts18 unique gifts that give back to those in needwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

your son is transgender? i never would have known. he looks so much like a boy! its one of the well-meaning comments san diego mom kathie moehlig heard over and over from strangers after her son, sam, transitioned from female to male when he was a teenager. im like, of course he looks like a boy, because he is, moehlig tells nbc news better. transgender youth and their families are often bombarded with unsolicited comments from strangers, family, and friends related to the teens gender identity. these comments range from well-meaning advice to intrusive questions and even accusations of child abuse, according to diane ehrensaft, the director of mental health at a gender clinic in san francisco and the author of the gender creative child. all of a sudden, because you have a child who says im transgender, now people look at you funny and wonder why are you letting your child do that? ehrensaft says. in the united states, 0.7 percent of youth between ages 13 and 17 identify as transgender, according to a recent report from the williams institute ucla school of law. more and more of americas youth are identifying outside the male-female binary: 56 percent of generation z kids know someone who uses gender-neutral pronouns, one survey found, and new york city joined four states in allowing gender-neutral birth certificates. for many people, adjusting to a young person who is transitioning or using new pronouns may seem challenging. experts who work with these individuals and their families say there are a number of dos and donts to keep in mind when interacting with these youth and their families. the first step, these experts say, is to not question the young persons identity. some of the recent literature thats coming out is demonstrating that all the ills that we have known to be associated with transgender youth and adults as in anxiety, depression, self harm, even suicidal thoughts, drug and alcohol addiction in later life, risky sexual behaviors, go way down when there is social support for a person to be a gender that feels authentic to them, says ehrensaft. here are some of the most common misconceptions about sex, gender, and gender identity, according to experts and parents interviewed for this story. misconception #1: sex and gender are the same people often conflate gender with sex, but they are not the same, according to ehrensaft. whereas sex refers to a persons reproductive system, gender refers to ones personal sense of oneself as a man or woman, she explains. your gender lies not between your legs but between your ears, ehrensaft says. the term cisgender refers to anyone who identifies with the gender assigned to them at birth.  misconception #2: gender dysphoria is a mental illness gender dysphoria is the distress a person experiences when their gender does not match the sex they were assigned at birth, and is not classified as a mental illness. nevertheless, ehrensaft says there is still a perception among some people that it is a disorder. there are certain people who think that these are disordered parents with disabled children, and both of them need to be fixed, and that can cause tremendous harm to the parent and child, she says.  misconception #3: gender identity is either male or female transgender is an umbrella term that refers to anyone who does not identify with the gender they were assigned at birth, according to melinda mangin, an associate professor in education at rutgers university, whose research focuses on trans children in schools. trans means across or beyond, says mangin. so its really anyone who cuts across social norms for what it means to be a man or a woman could be considered transgender, she says. gender identity is a phrase that refers to ones personal sense of being a man or a woman. there are a range of identities that fall outside of man and woman as well, like nonbinary. whereas some transgender people may see their gender as binary  meaning they identify as either a man or a woman  those who identify as nonbinary may see their gender as more complex, and usually wish to be identified with they and them pronouns, mangin explains. others may shirk these identities all together, according to ehrensaft. some kids also will say im agender, meaning, i dont have a gender. i think of myself as a human being, i dont use those categories at all, says ehrensaft.  what are some common mistakes to avoid when interacting with trans youth and their families? here are some of the most common, according to parents and experts. 1) offering unsolicited opinions and advice being the parent of a transgender teen can be stressful and isolating, according to moehlig. before her son transitioned, she says he was self-harming and talking about suicide. when moehlig allowed her son to transition socially at the age of 11, many people told her: 11-year-olds cant know who they are. she says many of these comments were from the parents of cisgender kids who dont understand the overwhelm of it. imagine a 10-year-old saying i dont see myself living to 16, moehlig says. parents interviewed for this story say the decision to allow their teenager to transition was not made brashly or easily. nevertheless, some people tended to assume they hadnt thought it through, or that they were making the decision for their children. ehrensaft says its common for people to not only criticize the childs identity but the parents choice to support them. its a double whammy, she says, because youre also criticizing the parents at the same time who have supported their child in being that person. 2) asking questions or making statements that objectify the teen parents are generally open to educating others about their childs identity, and understand there is a learning curve for most people, according tomangin. however, people will often ask questions about their childs private parts, possible medical treatments and surgeries, which objectifies the child, she says. transgender children are not predators, theyre not overtly sexually active, theyre just kids, and if nobody elses genitals are a topic of conversation, then you probably shouldnt worry about that one childs genitals, mangin says. often, when people find out a child is trans, they suddenly feel its ok to ask questions about their bodies, moehlig says. the mom recalls: my kid was 12 when our mailman of all people asked me what was in his pants. people also frequently asked her son questions related to surgery and medical treatments. you wouldnt ask somebody else what kind of medical treatment they had, moehlig says, but it seems ok for people to ask my trans son that. 3) misgendering the teen when a child is dysphoric, misgendering them over and over can exacerbate their distress, according to ehrensaft. whereas some children might simply be annoyed, others can experience extreme anxiety, ehrensaft says. randi, a mother in new jersey, says her teenager, who identifies as nonbinary and uses they/them pronouns, sometimes experiences panic attacks when people refer to them with gendered pronouns. the mother asked her and hers childs names be withheld to protect their privacy. for instance, if a store employee greets her child with hello, miss, the teen will get upset. after hearing comments like these, she says her child believes people will judge them negatively if they look for clothes in the boys section. for me, as an adult woman, if somebody called me gentleman, if somebody said, sir, can i help you? i would correct them, because im confident in the fact that im a woman, the mother says, explaining: my child doesnt feel empowered to correct them. some adults may think children experiencing distress over pronouns are overreacting, but ehrensaft says its important to look at it from the childs point of view: ask yourself how you would feel if people constantly referred to you as the wrong gender everywhere you went, she says. thats how it feels for a lot of these kids, she says. how to get used to new pronouns the only way to know for sure if someone is transgender is if they tell you, says mangin. but if you are unsure how a person identifies, you should ask them what their pronouns are, she says. you might feel uncomfortable doing it, she says, but many people who are trans or gender nonconforming usually see it as a huge sign of respect. it sounds really awkward, she says, but its even more awkward to make a mistake. if a teen or someone you know has switched pronouns, you might worry about remembering to get it right, or fear how they will react if you make a mistake. the best thing to do if you are worried is practice, according to mangin. maybe im driving a car and tell a story [to myself] about this person i know practicing the pronouns, she says. that way im not doing it in a public space or doing it where the stakes might be higher. moehlig says it all comes down to learning to be conscious. our minds like to be filled with all kinds of things, she says. we multitask, and breaking that habit when it comes to names and pronouns really does require us to be conscious. if you are unsure about someones pronouns, she says, you can introduce yourself with your own. this will give the other person space to tell you theirs, she says. i say my name is kathie moehlig, she/her/hers, and move on from there, she says. and that opens up a space so that other people then can use their pronouns if they would like to share it. tina nacrelli, a mother who lives in jersey city, nj, is the parent of 12-year-old esme, who identifies as agender. nacrelli says it was difficult for her to get her childs pronouns right at first. she says she and esme created a habit where if she used the wrong pronouns by mistake, esme would simply reply ouch. then i would say oops, and then we move on, she says. over time, this helped nacrelli get used to using the correct pronouns, she says. when your attention is drawn to ouch, it makes you more cognizant of it, and youre more likely to get it right the next time, she says. if you get someones pronouns wrong, the best thing to do is to simply correct yourself and move on. drawing too much attention to it can embarrass the individual, according to mangin. if you apologize kind of emphatically on and on and on, it suggests that there was something wrong, she says.  how to help kids understand transgender friends and classmates kids who are trans and gender nonconforming experience high rates of bullying at school. according to the 2015 u.s. transgender survey, 77 percent of respondents said they were verbally harassed, physically or sexually assaulted as students. a recent report from the american academy of pediatrics found that 14 percent of trans adolescents had attempted suicide. mangin says its important to help kids understand that not all boys and girls follow strict gender norms. she says this can help reduce bullying these students experience. we have very strong gendered social norms about what constitutes feminine behavior and what constitutes masculine behavior, mangin says. she says there are ways parents can help kids understand that gender is not always simple for everyone. i think trying to question social norms and think about that help children think that through, she says. for example, asking children questions like, if its ok for girls to wear pants, is it ok for boys to wear a dress? can help them question stereotypes and understand there are lots of different ways to be a boy or a girl, she explains. i think having those conversations is really important, because its not just about supporting transgender children, mangin says. those social norms are really harmful for all children, because theyre limiting. in worse case scenarios, theyre not only limiting, but they give rise to inequity and violence, so its really important that all kids get to have those conversations. for more on how to talk to trans people and their families, see this guide from glaad.

flexible savings accounts (fsas) are not so flexible when it comes to one aspect: timing. unlike health savings accounts (hsas), which, also offered by employers as a way to use pre-tax earnings towards health-related purchases, fsas typically do not roll over into the next calendar year.this means that if youve designated a certain amount of money (in 2018 individuals offered fsas could put as much as $2650 in  a max thats elevating to $2700 in 2019), you have until december 31 to use any remaining funds.use it or lose it or, in rare cases, get granted an extensionthe important thing to know is that fsa money is use it or lose it, says hanna horvath, staff reporter at policygenius. there are two exceptions to this rule, both of which are decided by employers. sometimes theyll give you grace period of two and a half months, meaning youll have until about march 15 [to spend the previous years fsa balance]. another option is theyll give you rollover up to $500.horvath stresses that both of these extension options arent the general rule for fsas. ideally, youll want to use any fsa money remaining now before the clock strikes twelve on december 31.as fsa holders likely know, you can use your fsa money to cover your co-pays as well as prescription costs, so if youve got any appointments or pharmacy pick-ups scheduled be sure to keep your fsa card handy.if youve still got fsa cash to burn, consider these spending tips:you can buy band-aids, but not neosporinfsas are tricky in that they cover most otc health-related drugstore purchases  but you need a prescription for some otc items.to be clear, certain items (like bandages and contact lens solution) you do not need an prescription for if paying with fsa funds; other products, like neosporin or otc allergy medicine, you do need an one.whats the deal here? why do certain otc items suddenly require prescriptions when using fsa funds? how do you know which items will be covered by your fsa money and which wont sans rx (an especially salient concern when you dont have a fsa card, but instead are relying on reimbursement through your hr).items that have an active medical ingredient  like antibiotic cream and antihistamines require an rx, rachel rouleau, compliance director at fsastore.com tells nbc news betterfortunately for people with diabetes, insulin is an exception to this strange rule, which has been in effect for both fsas and hsas since january 2011.a few ways to use your fsa money other than medical bills: acupuncture, glasses and condomssahir zaveri co-founder of king children, a custom eyewear startup, highlights some useful ways to use your fsa funds before the 12/31 deadline:eyeglasses and contact lenses: frames with prescription lenses and contacts are covered in fsas (and hsas).acupuncture: if the holidays stress you out, now might be a perfect time to try acupuncture to head into the new year with wellness in mind.condoms: your fsa includes sexual health products like condoms so that you can practice safe habits in 2019.your smile: fsas can be used to pay for non-cosmetic dental care.need to spend those dollars quickly? the best bet is to shop the fsa storethe best way to use your fsa dollars before year end is to visit fsastore.com, says zack friedman, founder and ceo of make lemonade. they have thousands of curated items that qualify for fsa spend, and using the site will save you significant time because everything is in one place. you can purchase everything from vitamins and sunscreen to first-aid kids and defibrillators.as a freelancer, i dont have an fsa, but having spent some time researching fsa store, i second friedmans advice. the site is easy to search, has very available customer service reps, and if additional paperwork is required by your employer, it will have their customer service department prepare that, says ijeoma iruke, consumer education specialist at fsastore.com.we have 4,000 eligible products, which is arguably the most comprehensive eligibility list out there, says iruke.fsa store product gift baskets? why not?the site also offers curated bundles by category, lending a gift-able edge to its selection. for instance, you can get the baby care bundle for $88.99. why not put this in a frilly basket and gift it to an expecting mom for christmas?you could also curate your own bundle for say, someone about to go on a big trip, stuffing a basket or stocking full of travel items that are fsa-approved.all in all, its not a bad way to save some much-needed cash and use money youve already set aside (pre-tax) to spread some holiday cheer.fsa store products worth the hypeiruke shares some of the sites big sellers right now:medcline pillows: one of our hottest items are these medcline pillows. theyre good for [alleviating] snoring, acid reflux and other digestive issues, says irkue.foot circulators: this is a big one for people with neuropathy or other circulation issues.defibrillator: this is one of our biggest ticket items, notes irkue.fsastore.com will be accepting orders for 2018 fsa-covered items through midnight on new years eve, iruke says, meaning you have literally until the very last minute of the year to make a purchase online.amazon is a no-goin case you were wondering (i certainly was), amazon does not except fsa cards. drugstores generally do, but consider consulting a pharmacist if you have questions about an items eligibility.should you get an fsa in 2019?fsas are widely available from employers, but they dont see a great deal of participation.according to a 2015 study by mercer, only 22 percent of eligible employees contributed to a health care fsa and 6 percent contributed to a childcare fsa, says allison kade, editorial director at financial services company fabric. so, based on that, i think its likely that not as many people are benefiting from fsas as could. i actually think underutilization may be as big an issue as lack of signing up in the first place.getting the most out of your fsa funds can be a bit of a headache (particularly if youre buying items that require prescriptions or if your company doesnt issue a card but instead requires you to pay out of pocket and then get reimbursed), but these accounts are still worth looking into.fsas get pushed aside because people may not think of them immediately or they do not realize what they cover, says horvath. my big advice is to talk to your employer, see if they can offer rolling fsas and look into what is covered. if youre spending regularly on doctor appointments or prescriptions, definitely look into this  almost everyone can benefit in some way.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

surprise! your in-laws just dropped by for an unexpected visit. your first instinct is probably to run to the fridge and look for some food to put out, but the bag of baby carrots and the stale cookies in your pantry just wont cut it. but have no fear  you dont have to let your mother-in-law silently judge you for 30 minutes while you wait for the pizza delivery. with just a little bit of forethought, its easy to impress unexpected guests with a simple last-minute appetizer or meal.the first step in having something to throw together is planning ahead. that may seem easier said than done with the madness of the holiday rush, but it really only takes five minutes to assess what you have, make a list of essentials and then grab them the next time youre at the grocery store. here are some simple tips to make sure youre well prepared for spontaneous festivities:take an inventory: spend a few minutes looking through your pantry, fridge and freezer, to get a sense of what youre working with to whip up a last-minute dish. while doing so, break out your phone  or pen and paper, if youre old school  and write down the ingredients you have on hand that could work. (if youre not sure what works as a good base for a dish, check out the expert recommendations below before taking inventory.)stock up the pantry: if your inventory is looking a bit bare, add some items to your shopping list. think about different courses, like appetizers, mains, drinks and desserts. items like canned beans, jarred olives, artichokes and peppers, crackers, chex mix, dry pasta, jarred sauce, seltzer and even baking mixes are lifesavers. pro tip: order non-perishable items online from big box stores to save yourself a trip to the store. shipping is usually free!buy some frozen essentials: having a well-stocked pantry will probably suffice, but it never hurts to keep some goodies in the freezer as well. if youre cooking dinner one night and find yourself with some leftover chopped veggies, freeze them! other helpful freezer staples are edamame, frozen brown rice or frozen appetizer bites.now that youre well prepared, its time to pull from your storage and create a killer dish in a flash. we tapped some registered dietitians for their go-to bites when last-minute guests stop by.hummusbreak out your food processor and impress you guests with a homemade hummus on the fly. hummus requires ingredients i almost always have, but its also easily customizable, says chef julie andrews, ms, rdn, cd. i use canned chickpeas or another bean, olive oil, garlic, tahini (you can skip if you dont have any), lemon, salt and pepper and serve it with crackers, pita or veggies, she adds. if you dont have these items in your pantry, now is the time to add them to your list.pasta bolognesea pasta dinner is only minutes away, if youve got the right ingredients. a super quick crowd-pleasing meal only requires ground turkey, a jar of marinara sauce and a box of pasta, says lauren harris-pincus, ms, rdn, author of the protein-packed breakfast club and founder of nutritionstarringyou.com. just brown the meat in a skillet, cook the pasta and then combine the two in a bowl with jarred sauce. it feeds about six people in under 20 minutes, says harris-pincus.no-bake chocolate almond bitesif youve got a food processor, chocolate chips, dates and nuts, youve got a quick no-bake dessert. if youre out of almonds, try walnuts or pecans. dont have chocolate chips? use white chocolate or a candy bar youve got stashed in the drawer. this recipe is completely customizable based on the ingredients you have on hand.white bean romesco dipromesco dip sounds and tastes more elegant than it actually is. its basically almonds (or any nuts you have on hand), roasted red peppers, olive oil, garlic, parsley, salt and pepper all zipped up in a food processor or blender, says chef and registered dietitian abbie gellman, ms, rd. for added plant-based protein to fill up your guests, include some white beans in the mix, says gellman.frittataguests show up at the most unexpected times. for breakfast or brunch guests, a simple frittata will hit the spot. jessica levinson, ms, rdn, cdn, new york-based culinary nutrition expert and author of 52-week meal planner, suggests utilizing a fridge staple to whip up a baked egg dish. you can sub in any frozen veggies you may have to make this simple crowd-pleaser. serve with salad greens, toasted bread slices and a pot of coffee (and pour yourself an extra cup).holiday snack mixmaking a holiday snack mix is as easy as raiding the pantry. grab a few crunchy things, one sweet thing and one salty thing, says sara haas, rdn, ldn, culinary dietitian and author of taco! taco! taco! and co-author fertility foods. toss it all together and serve in a festive bowl or dish  no cooking required, haas adds.freezer flatbreadi always keep some sort of flatbread in the freezer so i can pull it out and make a go-to pizza that everyone will enjoy, says elizabeth shaw ms rdn clt cpt, nutrition expert and owner of shawsimpleswaps.com. she suggests adding any sauce you find in the cupboard. if you dont have pizza sauce, you can use bbq sauce or another condiment and top it with cheese, veggies or basically anything you can find in the fridge or pantry, says shaw.cheese platteri always have at least one block of cheese in my fridge (i stock up when its on sale), says jenna braddock, msh, cssd, rd dietitian and food blogger at makehealthyeasy.com. from there, i add whatever crackers or bread i have around, lay out any fresh fruit from my fridge, and finish it off with a dried fruit or nuts. the best part of this is that you can customize the type of cheese, fruit and nuts to suit your taste (or based on what youre able to scrounge up). and might we add this is the perfect time to break out that fancy serving dish your in-laws bought you thats been collecting dust in the cabinet?fruity spritzerwhile youre at it, kick your drink game up a notch, too. wine is always a winner, but why not think outside of the bottle this year with a fruity spritzer? just combine 3 ounces of your favorite wine with 1 ounce of seltzer and 1 ounce of 100% fruit juice, and garnish with fresh fruit slices, if you have them. your guests will be impressed and feel special  like you were planning for their arrival all along.more better-for-you recipes13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonighthealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for youfall recipes to add to your menu right nowwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

for most, having a predictable income and fixed expenses makes budgeting and saving a lot easier. part-time hourly employees, contractors, and seasonal workers who jump from gig to gig or who work more in some months than others dont always enjoy this same sense of stability  and working several different types of jobs with variable income structures can lead to hard lessons about managing money.ive done them all. i spent several years as a full-time, salaried journalist followed by three more in seasonal gigs: an active travel guide in the summer and an hourly office assistant and part-time swim instructor in the winter. ive been an independent contractor for a meal delivery service, a yoga teacher, and a freelance writer paid by the project. i recently returned to the world of full-time, salaried work.as a seasonal and hourly employee  and one who relied heavily on tips  i had an erratic income that made planning for the future difficult.there were perks to this type of employment. housing between trips i guided was paid for, and i was virtually assured to have work the following year. there was flexibility to travel, move to a new city, work in a different industry in the off-season, and supplement with other sources of income.of course, not all seasonal employment comes with these benefits. if youre picking up shifts in a retail store or taking a temporary customer service position during the busy holiday season, you likely dont have expenses paid or the guarantee of a position long-term. and wages and working conditions vary widely across industries. seasonal work also has a feast-or-famine quality. during my summer employment, i was flush with cash and thought i could afford to spend a lot. but in reality, i had to stretch those funds out over winter to supplement other short-term (and lower-paying) hourly jobs and cover rent and other living expenses while doing so.the challenge, regardless of take-home pay, was managing my money when my circumstances changed  from job to job and when switching from seasonal gigs back to a full-time position.here are four things i learned along the way that changed the way i look at money.just because you have cash doesnt mean you should spend itthe hardest lesson i learned during my off-season and in my transition back to full-time work was that a cushy bank account doesnt last long when overhead costs increase. having a large balance at the end of every summer felt secure  even liberating  but that money disappeared pretty quickly when i had to put down a security deposit, buy groceries, and pay for gas, even when i had other sources of income. instead of building an emergency fund and planning for those fixed expenses when i had the funds, id spent cash on things i shouldnt  like a $500 leather jacket and a $250 bike computer.its important to think ahead and plan for the unexpected, especially if your income is variable. most americans arent prepared for emergencies, and i learned the hard way that if you have extra cash, you should put it to responsible use. when i had some medical expenses pop up that i couldnt pay for outright (and didnt want to put on a credit card), it prompted me to get serious about saving.financial planners love to hit hard on emergency funds, and it wasnt until i had three months worth of expenses saved up that i felt confident in my financial security. i set aside $75 each week  which was manageable despite my fluctuating paycheck  and slowly built up this safety net.live just below your means most of the time, to have \"fun\" sometimesmoney was tight at times, especially in the transitions between seasons and in waiting for a full-time paycheck to kick in. i was never at risk of not having food or shelter, but i did have to make some difficult lifestyle choices that i likely wouldnt have encountered if id had a stable income or planned more carefully. i wasnt able to attend weddings, travel to see family over the holidays, or purchase ski gear to take advantage of living in utah over the winter.while i may have overspent early on in my seasonal employment, i did learn to live like i was making less  and still do. using this rule while in a full-time, salaried position has helped me set aside thousands of dollars in savings to take those trips and buy that gear.laura gilman, a financial planner and managing partner at kcs wealth advisory in los angeles, california, explains that this mentality is like climbing a ladder. the first rung is building up emergency savings in case you get laid off, land in the hospital or have to repair your water heater.having that emergency reserve takes away some of that panic, she says. then you go to the next step: you say, now whats important to me?this is where you balance saving for retirement and other long-term goals with the fun stuff. you can plan for fun, gilman says. decide what else you want to spend your money on  vacations, home upgrades, a new computer  and how to prioritize what youre saving toward those purchases. earmarking savings for specific purposes and in separate accounts has helped me stay committed to my goals  which yes, includes some \"fun\" expenses.pay a little more upfront to save money down the roadin our off-season, my partner and i paid a little bit more for a short-term, furnished apartment than we would for an unfurnished space with a year-long lease  but we saved a significant amount of money by not having to buy a bed, dining chairs and dishes that wed eventually have to sell or store when we returned to our guiding jobs. plus, we avoided any fees involved in breaking a longer contract with our landlord.sometimes the cheapest option isnt the best investment in your long-term financial well-being. items that cost more but are of higher quality may last longer, which means youll spend less in replacement costs. similarly, things that are more expensive on paper may add up to less money spent overall.for example, ive bought pricier kitchen appliances and cookware with the expectation that i wouldnt have to replace them in a year or two so the cost per use is actually minimal.but gilman notes that choosing to spend more on some items is a personal preference that requires you to weigh costs versus benefits: \"you always want to have a strategy if youre stretching yourself a little bit more of how youre going to get a payback down the road.\"talk about money  and do it oftenmy partner and i worked the same guiding job, had similar hourly wages in our off-season, and went back to full-time employment around the same time, so we were usually on the same page about how to cover our bills and manage discretionary spending. if we hadnt talked about it, however, we may not have had such clear priorities and expectations.whether your finances are always in flux or not, its important to talk about them with your partner or roommate or anyone with whom you share bills. money conversations are difficult  but staying silent when youre uncertain about what you can afford or struggling to meet your commitments can cause even more strain.these conversations will look differently for everyone, but gilman recommends getting together at least once a month to go over shared expenses (which my partner and i do). how you approach financial discussions really depends on your relationship, she says, as each individual may have a different emotional attachment to money  what they earn and how they spend it.for example, some people prefer to split everything down the middle or have shared accounts; others may be more comfortable paying a percentage based on income and keeping fun money separate. before you dive into your balance sheet, find out what works best for your roommate, spouse, partner or family member.you want to be as open as you can with whoever youre sharing resources with, gilman says. i find that the more people talk about it, you can eliminate some of that emotion or attachment people have to money and make it more about your shared goals.more money tips from betterhow to pay off your loans using the debt avalanche methodhow to get out of debt and build a wealth snowballhow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow the 50-20-30 rule can help you get out of debt and save moneywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

trying to come up with some ideas for your friend who loves to cook? we have you covered. weve rounded up the most innovative  and most useful  kitchen tools and appliances that any home chef in your life will surely appreciate. whether youre looking for your friend whos striving to be the next ina garten  or if youre an avid home cook doing some shopping for yourself (we wont tell!)  this list will be your go-to guide this holiday season.silpat silicone perfect cookie matprice: $30, williams-sonomathis innovative mat conducts heat evenly for perfectly baked cookies, every time. plus, its an eco-friendly, nonstick alternative to disposable parchment paper. our favorite feature? its marked for perfect placement of cookie dough, meaning no more pulling a giant cookie blob out of the oven!oxo good grips salad spinnerprice: $25, amazonfor the home cook who swears theyre going to eat more greens in 2019, this easy-to-operate salad spinner will make a great gift. all you need is one hand to spin lettuce clean, while the wide, clear container makes a perfect serving bowl, saving you the extra dish in the sink.instant potprice: $70, amazoninstant pots have officially claimed their spot as the hottest kitchen appliance of 2018  and if you know a avid home cook who doesnt have one, we can guarantee theyre coveting it. this version is the number-one best-selling version on amazon, combining seven kitchen appliances into one sleek product.magnetic refrigerator rackprice: $48, food52if your friends junk drawer is atrociously overflowing, give her the gift of organization with this japanese-designed magnetic rack. it sticks to the side your fridge (or screws into any wall) to make a much more eye-pleasing resting place for odds and ends, from favorite utensils to oven mitts and measuring spoons.cocktail tote kitprice: starting at $109, food52for the home cook who likes to bring happy hour to the park, tailgate or concert, this portable cocktail kit is ideal. the canvas and leather tote bag equipped with all the essentials for taking cocktails on-the-go, including a mason shaker, muddler and cocktail jigger.mercer culinary genesis 6-piece forged knife block setprice: $135, amazongive your favorite home chef a practical, high-quality and aesthetically pleasing addition to their kitchen. this beautiful knife set features non-slip handles, as well as long-lasting, durable and strong blades that are able to withstand the hottest  and coldest  temps.double-sided cutting boardprice: $99, food52any chef worth his or her salt knows that solid cutting board is essential to excellent cooking. this board has many purposes: its a chopping, carving, and serving platter, all-in-one solid board made of high-quality american maple. one side features am extra deep juice groove and corner pocket to catch drippings, while the other has a phone slot to keep recipes and notes front and center.heritage black ceramic pizza stone and pizza cutterprice: $35, amazona two-in-one gift is always a good idea. your home cook will love this durable pizza stone, which heats up twice as fast as other pizza stones. its easy to clean  they wont have to worry about it staining from grease or burnt crust. plus, it comes with a pizza cutter to easily turn their pie into perfect slices.le creuset cast-iron essential ovenprice: $150, williams-sonomale creuset is a highly coveted brand among home chefs  and for good reason. this enameled cast-iron oven provides a perfect cooking vehicle for wintery recipes such as stews, casseroles and other one-pot meals. the enameled light color of the interior makes it easy to monitor food while cooking, while ensuring less sticking and burning.vitamix disc containerprice: $116, amazonfor anyone in your life whos obsessed with their vitamix, this tool will take their blending powers to the next level. with an aerating disc blade (instead of metal blades), you can master culinary techniques like whipping, muddling, foaming, emulsifying, and even extract essential oils from herbs and juice from fruit.yeti hopper flip soft coolerprice: $199.99, amazonfor any chef that likes to bring their goods on the go, this leakproof, highly insulated soft cooler makes the perfect gift. its compact, yet the wide-mouth opening makes for easy loading and access to your food and drinks. (big enough to hold 12 cans plus ice, its also a great tailgating tool).indoor herb gardenprice: $40, amazonno matter where they live, any home cook chef can now have a gorgeous garden. this mini indoor garden features an led light, which simulates natural sunlight and encourages plant growth. its perfect for small apartments, or any place where the weather is too harsh to host an outdoor garden.solino home linen apronprice: $35, amazonthis unisex apron is 100 percent linen giving it a streamlined design that is naturally stain resistant (making it a great gift for any avid cook in your life who gets a little messy experimenting in the kitchen). its machine-washable, has adjustable back and neck ties, and has three pockets: two large front pockets for storing any cooking essentials, plus a smaller top pocket for storing a phone, pen or measuring spoons.more holiday gift ideasunder $30: 11 thoughtful gifts if youre on a budgetholiday gifts and gadgets for the healthy home cook15 gadgets and gifts that will take your fitness routine to the next levelthe best workout shoes for women, according to fitness experts18 unique gifts that give back to those in needwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

name: eric gonzalesage: 34residence: los alamitos, calif.job: residential certified nursing assistantfamily status: single, no kidspeak weight: 431 poundscurrent weight: 271 poundswhen eric gonzales was diagnosed with hypertension and type 2 diabetes at age 32, he says it felt like a slap in the face. my doctor said i was going to be on pills for the rest of my life. he even suggested weight-loss surgery, he says.after hearing that news, gonzales broke down. i went to my car and cried. i was heartbroken to get to that point. i was ashamed and saddened about the fact that i was in denial about my health. i didnt really pay attention to what was in the mirror. i chose to ignore it, but you cant deny when the doctor tells you these facts about yourself, he says.the health scares motivated him to make changes. i knew i wasnt a kid anymore and it was time to get myself in gear. i had to handle this or pay the consequences down the road, he says.a return to what workeda decade earlier, gonzales lost 50 pounds with ww (formerly weight watchers) and then stopped the program. he thought he would continue losing weight on his own. that clearly didnt work. over 10 years i put the 50 pounds back on, plus another 100, he says. he decided to try ww again.looking back, i see i needed the support of the group and the accountability of seeing my peers each week. without the accountability factor theres nobody to show up to except myself, he says.he rejoined ww in april 2016. when i went in the first time and i stepped on the scale i weighed 431 pounds. i knew i was never going to see that number again. my mindset shifted, and i knew i was ready.gonzales wanted to lose over 100 pounds. but that seemed overwhelming. he set easier, attainable goals to help him move in that direction, like:lose 20 poundsgo down a shirt sizewalk a mile without his feet hurtingas i checked those off it was time to set new goals, he says. the end goal sometimes seems unattainable, but you accomplish each little goal. i didnt think i would lose 160 pounds but here i am. its doable.gonzales likes how with the ww plan, no food is off limits. you work the plan with how you want to live. with a diet, youre usually restricted from having things. i knew that was something i couldnt do long-term, he says.ww allots you a number of points per day, based on your weight and gender. every food has a point value. its up to you how you go ahead and use those points. nothing is off limits. if you want a slice of pizza you can have a slice of pizza. whatever youre in the mood for is doable, he says. i never feel deprived. if i want to go out and have a glass of wine i can. if i want to have a burger i can.ww also includes in-person wellness workshops where members can share ideas and struggles. gonzales likes how each weeks meeting has a different topic. they arent always weight-related, theyre life-related. thats something i really like  its not about the scale, its about every factor in your life, he says.virtual support after a devastating setbackin july 2017, though, gonzales nearly quit the program. his grandmother passed away, and the loss hit him hard. then, soon after, his father was diagnosed with brain cancer, and gonzales quit his job to be by his fathers side.without an income finances were tight, and gonzales decided to quit ww. he shared his decision on connect, a part of the ww app where members can interact. he had lost more than 100 pounds at that point, and people in the group encouraged him not to quit.six members of the group, all people gonzales had never met in person, contributed money to cover the cost of his ww membership for six months. im so grateful to all of them, he says. i could have quit and undone everything.gonzales has lost 160 pounds and he now has a clean bill of health. i went from type 2 diabetes to prediabetes, and now im in the healthy range. my blood pressure is normal and im no longer on medication. im pill-free and healthy, he says.and he doesnt have any plans to end his ww membership. i say now i will be a weight watchers member for life, because i know that once you hit your goal its not over. you have life after that. its something i will always be doing, he says.a more active lifestylegonzales says he doesnt have a formal exercise regimen, but he stays busy. in my former life i was sitting in front of the tv if i wasnt working. now im not comfortable just sitting in the house. in my free time im doing something out somewhere. im not so much looking to burn calories as moving in some way, he says. that movement is more than just a casual stroll around the blockhe has run two 5k races in the past year.freedom from the struggles of obesityhealth struggles werent the only problems gonzales faced because of his weight. he says, sitting in a booth in a restaurant was something i was terrified of. am i going to fit? should i just ask for a table?on rollercoasters he faced the same problem. my biggest fear was being rejected and having to get off in front of everybody. i came close to that happening and i stopped riding for a long time. i was afraid. after losing over 100 pounds i gave it a shot, he says. he could fit, no problem.he says, i felt fantastic  i felt like a kid again. its little things like that  being able to live life again.erics typical daybreakfast: a couple of pieces of fruit, like a banana and an apple, and coffeelunch: eric tends to graze throughout the day. he might have a turkey and swiss cheese sandwich on an english muffin, strawberries, ww snacks, hard-boiled eggs, or three-point bags of cheez-its.dinner: chili made with lean turkey, all kids of vegetables, and spices. ww has zero point freestyle foods you can eat until you feel satisfied, and eric uses those foods to create his chili.snacks: he might have a scoop of ice cream if he has points left at the end of the day.eric drinks a gallon of water a day and tracks his intake with the water minder app.a dietitians takeim so supportive of anybody who loses weight in a healthy way, says samantha cassetty, r.d., a new york city-based nutritionist.she says she likes how all foods fit in the ww program. i admire and appreciate and respect that its not overly restrictive. learning how to treat yourself and enjoy your splurges is a huge part of figuring out your own balance, she says.learning how to treat yourself and enjoy your splurges is a huge part of figuring out your own balance.and she thinks accountability and support play a big part in why people do well maintaining their weight loss on ww. thats a really big deal  thats where people often go astray. they get a little out of control and they throw in the towel, she says.she does note that, from a nutrition point of view, not all foods fit equally. points always serve you better when they come from quality, whole-food sources. thats one piece that often gets overlooked. people often save and reserve points for their favorite foods instead of learning how to replace those foods and eat them less often, she says. you can get an equal number of calories from twizzlers or from salmon, but they are going to serve you differently.she also notes that sometimes people use up all their points at the end of the day, whether they are hungry or not. that doesnt always teach you how to listen to your body. there will be days your appetite is heavier and days it is lighter, she says.still, she supports tools that help people feel better in their bodies and lose weight when they need to. eric clearly fell into that camp. if this tool is working, i celebrate that huge success for him, she says.more weight-loss success storieshow a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

over the holidays, people report that theyre much more likely to behave in sedentary ways (like curling up on the couch for that hallmark movie marathon). thats why its important to get creative with your workouts and squeeze in movement when you can.and wrapping all of those christmas presents is the perfect opportunity.weve come up with a way to intersperse movement and exercise (and major calorie burning!) into the holiday chore without sacrificing time or needing fancy equipment. incorporate these five exercises into your next present wrapping session: if you wrap five presents while doing this workout, youll burn approximately 250 calories and make progress towards those goals of toning up in the new year. (while calorie burn during exercise varies from person to person, these calorie counts are for an average-sized person working out at a moderate pace.)this full-body routine will not only burn calories, but also strengthen your major muscle groups. go ahead and check gift wrapping and your workout off that to-do list. you may even have some time left over for a corny christmas movie.present swing &amp; squatafter you stuff each gift bag, commit to doing 10 swing and squats. holding a gift bag in front of you, bend your knees and move into a squat. then, as you stand up, press down through the heels and swing the bag up so that your arms are as high as your shoulders. squeeze your glutes at the top, and then repeat.calorie burn: if you do 10 swings in 1 minute, youll burn 20 calories. do this for five presents, and youll burn 100 calories!jumping for joyafter you wrap each box with wrapping paper, place the box on the ground, then jump forwards (over the gift) and back 20 times! use your arms for extra momentum to help propel you. remember to land with your knees slightly bent to maintain proper form.calorie burn: if this takes you 1 minute, youll burn 15 calories. do this for five presents for a total of 75 calories.present wrapping wide leg shufflethen, pick up the gift bag and shuffle over the wrapped box! holding on to the gift bag, straddle your feet over the wrapped box and pitter-patter your feet on the ground. channel your inner football player to do this quickly! breathe in through the nose and out through the mouth.calorie burn: do this for 1 minute for a 6-calorie burn  but more importantly, youll get your heart rate up, improve circulation and increase blood flow. do this for five presents in the middle of the workout, and youll burn 30 calories plus be doing a high-intensity interval workout (which research shows are the most effective!).place the presentsitting on the ground next to the tree, grab your wrapped box and do arm circles (drawing half circles over your head from side to side) 10 times to work the abs before placing the present under the tree. by moving the arms in a circle, youre working your internal and external obliques and your entire core. pull your naval in towards your spine throughout the entire exercise.calorie burn: if this takes you a minute, youll burn about 6 calories. therefore, at 5 repetitions, youll burn 30 calories and strengthen your core!tree present reachfor the holiday gift bags, do a standing leg reach 10 times before finally placing the present under the tree. holding onto the gift bag, balance on one leg. press the heel of the standing foot into the ground, and slowly lift the opposite leg up. squeeze the inner thighs towards each other, and slowly balance as you lower down and then come back up. keep the back leg straight and engage the hamstring and glute. after doing 10, switch sides.calorie burn: while this exercise burns a mere 3 calories per minute, whats more important is the stabilization and balance improvement that this exercise provides. by standing on one leg, your ankle, knee and hip joints all help stabilize the muscles and bones in your body. this strength training move helps improve standing posture and hip mobility, too.even after the holidays, you can keep this workout on standby when youre short on time and are looking for a quick way to exercise in your house. substitute the wrapped presents for other household items  you can increase the weight of the items you choose as you start to build strength.try these fitness routines10 core exercises that are better for your back (and body) than crunches5 exercises you can perform anywhere, anytimea 10-minute cardio workout you can do at home5 exercises that will strengthen your back and reduce pain8 exercises trainers never do (and what to do instead)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

with the holidays rapidly approaching, its time to take a close and honest look at how youre spending your money. for many people, gift-giving is one of their favorite or most fulfilling parts of the holiday season, but it can also be financially fraught. according to a recent survey by experian, american adults plan to spend an average of $846 on gifts this holiday season  and that doesnt count any of the other holiday-related expenses, such as traveling, food, greeting cards, wrapping paper, or charitable donations.whatever your budget this year, the last thing you want to do is waste money on a gift. before you check off everyone on your gift list, you should make sure that the money you spend is worth it  both for you and for the recipient. after all, its estimated that 28% of people returned at least one gift from the 2017 holiday season. thats a lot of time eaten up by going to stores or the post office and standing in line to make returns.here are three gifts that you should skip buying this year, and alternatives to consider instead.1. dont buy: clothing or shoesits already a chore to find clothes that fit you, are in your style, work with the rest of your wardrobe, and look good on you, much less try to do that for someone else. unless youve been sent a specific link to an item along with the desired color and size, trying to buy clothing or shoes for someone else can be a bit of a disaster. many people have holiday horror stories about clothing gifts from well-meaning family and friends.weve had several bad experiences gifting shoes to family members who live far away. the problem is not that the shoes are ugly  its that they dont fit, says miguel a. suro, a florida attorney and personal finance blogger at the rich miser. even if you know the persons size, the fact is that different brands make shoes in different ways, and theres a big risk of them not fitting.consider: store gift cards or accessoriesthat doesnt mean you cant give clothes to the fashionistas in your life. youll just need to take the indirect route. instead of purchasing a specific item of clothing, consider buying a gift card to their favorite clothing or shoe store instead. that way, the recipient can go out and get exactly what they want and what will fit their body and their style so you dont have to do the guesswork.but what if they dont have a favorite store? good alternative gifts would beaccessories, such as scarves, ties, or even watches, suro says. those gifts, along with purses, jewelry, and other non-size-specific items will be less likely to be returned because of a manufacturers rogue sizing whims.2. dont buy: trendy makeup or holiday setsat this time of year, it is common to find special sample sets of trendy makeup colors or holiday-themed products. theyre often marketed as being perfect for stocking stuffers or great ideas for taking product with you while you travel for the holidays. but despite the attractive packaging, theyre not always the best way to spend your money.makeup, just like clothing, is highly personal. even though a particular shade of pink may be the hot new thing, that doesnt mean it looks good on everyone or that everyone wants to participate in the trend. holiday sampler sets are also difficult  when was the last time you actually liked and used everything that came in a themed set? these kinds of gifts can easily just clutter up someones makeup drawer until theyre tossed out.consider: tried and true makeup staplesif your gift recipient loves makeup, chances are they already have particular products they swear by. instead of trying to give them something they dont have, get them more of the products they already love. things like foundation, moisturizer, toner, etc. are used frequently, if not every day, and will always need to be replaced once they run out. taking care of the basics also means that the gift recipient will have more wiggle room in their makeup budget down the line in case they want to chase a trend they do like later on.3. dont buy: the latest electronicsif your gift recipient doesnt need to have top-of-the-line specs for their electronics, it may make better financial sense for you to wait until the new year to drop cash on a new computer or other large electronic purchase.as with many premium high-end electronics, the 2018 models tend to hit better prices when new models are being touted around, said jacob lunduski, financial industry analyst, credit card insider. according to dealnews.com, waiting until after the consumer electronics show in january will be the best time to score deals for the previous models of vr headsets, smart home appliances, and 3d printers.consider: upgrades for current electronicsfor example, instead of buying an entire new system, it may make better financial sense to buy upgrades to improve a computers performance. pc world has a list of 10 surprisingly cheap upgrades to consider if you want to make an older desktop feel like a brand new machine. and while a new keyboard or gaming mouse or monitor might not be the flashiest of gifts, they can improve the setup of the system and the recipients overall experience.the simplest gift is often the bestsometimes, all a person really wants for a gift is the means to acquire something they truly want. according to a 2017 survey by the national retail federation, 61% of people want a gift card or gift certificate for the holidays.however, youll want to do your due diligence if this is the route you choose to go this year. if you are thinking about buying a gift card for someone this holiday season, make sure you read the terms and conditions closely so the recipient doesnt get surprised by fees or expiration dates.another thing to consider is the ease with which the recipient will be able to use the card. they may love a particular restaurant chain, but if the closest location is far away or in an inconvenient location, that gift card may not be as valuable to the recipient as somewhere that is more accessible or could be redeemed online. consumer reports has a breakdown of the pros and cons of gift cards vs generic prepaid cards that you should be familiar with if youre trying to decide between the two.whatever your budget this holiday season, its worth your time to take a moment and reevaluate whether or not your planned purchases are worth your money.

we have the ability to read more than ever before  and its easier to do so. you can scan the days newspaper headlines waiting in line at the grocery store. you can pick from dozens of op-eds about the days political drama. your doctor running behind schedule means you can read some of the email newsletters in your inbox you havent gotten around to.but are you reading anything youd actually bring up in a dinner party conversation?probably not, says david mikics, the moores distinguished professor in the english department and honors college at university of houston and author of the book \"slow reading in a hurried age\".a lot what we read tends to come from the internet via our cell phones or other electronic devices, which we read on the go or amidst doing several other things. and none of that necessarily encourages deep reading, mikics says.our cell phones are designed to compete for our attention with dings, beeps and notifications, mikics says. and the internet, as we mostly use it now, is a kind of glorified fidget spinner.the result is that were doing a lot more skimming of headlines and quick type of reading, which leaves less and less time for that deeper, more thoughtful type of reading  meaning were missing out, mikics says. he compares it to watching a movie preview on your phone versus watching the film in its entirety in a movie theater. real reading is slow reading, he says  being absorbed by what you read.... the internet, as we mostly use it now, is a kind of glorified fidget spinner.slowing reading is the term mikics uses in his book to describe deep, thoughtful reading. its the kind of reading that allows you to know more about the world and encounter new things  and you actually learn something, he says.multi-tasking while reading is not so good for learningtheyre really two different processes when it comes to whats going on in your brain, explains jessica church-lang, phd, a primary investigator in the developmental cognitive neuroscience lab at the university of texas at austin, where her research focuses on executive function and reading development in late childhood and adolescence. shes talking about deep reading versus skimming.generally when youre paying more attention to something and more involved in something, more parts of your brain are engaged  memory networks, control and attention-related networks  and youre more directly paying attention to one thing, she says.and that type of activity tends to mean youll have a better chance of retaining that single thing youre engaged in.the type of information that tends not to get retained later is that which youre exposed to when youre switching between tasks and easily distracted by whats going on around you for, adds church-lang, who is also assistant professor in the department of psychology within the institute for neuroscience at utexas.theres certainly a time and a place for both types of reading, mikics adds. you dont need to read every phone number in the book to find the one youre looking for or every recipe online to find something to cook for dinner. try skimming jane austen on the other hand, and good luck trying to have a meaningful conversation about it.deep, slow reading takes patience, practice and intentionkey to reading something deeply so that it does stick is being conscious aboutnot just what youre reading, but also how youre reading it, both mikics and church-lang agree. heres what they suggest:1. make the conscious, intentional decision to read something deeplythe first step is setting the intention to devote your brainpower and attention to whatever youre reading (for whatever length of time you choose), mikics says. you dont actually need a lot of time to read in an engaged way, but you do need to deliberately make the decision to do so, he says.that means turn off your phone or put it away, tune out the other distractions, and just focus on your book or whatever youre reading.2. strategizewhen will i read? before bed? on your lunch break? on your commute? how much do i want to read  how many minutes or hours per day? pick a time you think you will actually read, and put it in your calendar, says darius foroux, founder of the productivity program procrastinate zero.and only spend time reading books you actually want to read and are relevant to your life, he adds. skim articles or book synopses or reviews ahead of time and decide whats worth investing your time into reading. we have limited time, says foroux, who also blogs about productivity, decision making, and habits. a reading strategy helps.3. read with a purposehaving a purpose for why youre reading something helps you think critically about it as you go, church-lang says. write down (or at least think of in your head) questions about what youre reading beforehand, she suggests.reading aloud, highlighting, or underlining certain sentences or passages can help you check in on your own understanding of what youre reading and keep thinking critically, she adds.4. slow downwhen you do commit to reading something  whether it be a newspaper article or a book  youre going to need to slow down and actually pay attention when youre reading it, mikics says. deep, thoughtful reading is going to take longer than skimming.5. re-readdid a sentence or passage catch you off guard? read it again. think about it. similarly when you finish a book or article, dont just toss it aside. go back to a section that resonated with you or the very beginning and re-read it.not only will it help you remember it, but it will help you remember what you liked in it and youll see it a little bit differently, mikics says. it helps you ponder what is it that you read that you found truly interesting. (and thats what reading is really all about and why you do it  to remember thinks you find interesting, mikics says.)6. think about the stylewhat makes this book or article different from others you have read? how would you characterize it? style is the author displaying him- or herself to the reader, mikics says. its how you as the reader get to know the author, he says. its also a way of becoming more familiar with the book or text that youre reading.7. dont read it in a silowhen children learn to read, its a very interactive process, church-lang says. you ask what they think: what does this mean? what is this character thinking?the same process helps adults with reading, but we tend to do it less. she suggests joining a book club or discussion group. it can really help you remember what youre reading and read more carefully if you know youre going to discuss it with someone and someone else is doing the same thing, church-lang says.getting different perspectives on the same article can help your own understanding of it and make it stick because youve engaged with it at multiple levels, she says.8. practicedeep reading is a craft, mikics says. it takes practice.you can try to optimize the perfect situation or environment that lets you focus on what youre reading, church-lang adds. but ultimately practice is what makes it easiest to do.more from betterhow to improve your memory, according to neurosciencewhy our sense of time speeds up as we age  and how to slow it downhow to train your brain to accept change, according to neurosciencewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when amazon prime launched back in 2005, the deal was simply free-two day shipping on qualifying u.s products. sounds rather meh in comparison to what prime members have today, including free same-day delivery, free streaming of an ever-expanding library of media content including music, tv, movies and more (the list of benefits goes on), with the only real catch being the rising price.back in 2005 members paid $79.99 a year for prime. today they pay $12.99 a month, which works out to $156 annually, or $119 a year if you pay for the year in full. (students can get the service for substantially less: $59.99 per year or $6.49 per month).prime costs a pretty penny, no doubt, but members  particularly millennials (myself included)  are hooked on amazon. a new report by the consumer-tech communications firm max borges agency found that 77 percent of millennials would choose amazon over alcohol; 44 percent would pick it over sex, and less than one in four would buy a tech product that wasnt available from amazon.we were surprised to find out how strongly millennials are devoted to amazon, says lindsay stuart, vp of business intelligence at max borges agency. we expected some to be willing to give up alcohol and few to give up sex, but the results were staggering. [also noteworthy is that] people are shopping in all sorts of places, from the bathroom to on the road while sitting in traffic. it was clear to us that amazon is more than a shopping preference  its a lifestyle that many cant imagine living without.it was clear to us that amazon is more than a shopping preference  its a lifestyle that many cant imagine living without.amazon attracts millennials more than any other age groupmatt sargent, svp at magid, a research consultancy firm, shared data with nbc news better indicating that millennials lead the pack of amazon loyalists, from a generational perspective with 53 percent of age group is likely to subscribe to amazon prime, versus 41 percent of gen x-ers and 31 percent of baby boomers.there are ample reasons why millennials love amazon as a shopping destination. you can get practically anything youd want on there at deeply competitive prices, and with free two-day shipping if youre a prime member.these are hard to beat perks considering that most of us are struggling to meet financial goals.but shopping on amazon isnt all value-packed sunshine and discount-heavy rainbows. ive purchased plenty of items on amazon that failed to live up to their descriptions and had to be returned (with prime, return shipping is pre-paid, but its still a hassle). ive also bought things at what looked like a rock-bottom price only to see the price fall more the next day. and for me, there are those off months when im not buying or streaming anything on amazon, but still paying for prime.these arent big problems by any measure, but if were so devoted to a company, shouldnt we be getting the most out of its services? i think so, which is why i compiled this list of expert advice on how to get the best value as an amazon shopper.read influencer reviews of productsread [product] reviews not only on amazon, but on influencer websites, blogs and social platforms, advises joe gagliese, co-founder of viral nation. influencers make up a large part of the marketing industry and their platforms are great ways to get a true understanding of products and brands.\"price track before buyingif you have your eye on an item, track the price so you can be sure to buy it at the lowest point, says kimberly palmer, personal finance expert for nerdwallet. since prices fluctuate often on amazon, timing can mean the difference between big savings or not.the best way to track prices is to use a site such as camelcamelcamel.com or keepa.com to monitor prices, see the price history, and even sign up for price alerts, palmer notes.apply for one of the amazon credit cardsyou can earn five percent cash back on all of your amazon purchases by using the amazon prime rewards visa signature card, [which] also offers you five percent back at whole foods, two percent back at restaurants, gas stations and drug stores, and one percent back on all other purchases, says palmer. if you are already a prime member, there is no additional annual fee for the card.sean messier, financial industry analyst at credit card insider adds that even if you arent an amazon prime member, you can still qualify for the amazon rewards visa signature card. this card boasts many of the same advantages as the amazon prime rewards visa signature, though youll earn three percent cash back on amazon purchases, [two percent at restaurants, gas stations and drugstores, and one percent on other buys] and get a free $50 amazon.com gift card upon approval.amazon also offers the more straightforward amazon store card, messier notes. it can only be used for purchases on amazon.com, but it provides you with a five percent cash back reward rate.use the browser extension wikibuy and amazon assistantwikibuy is a widget you can [install] that automatically tells you if youre getting the best price on a product on amazon, notes 28-year old jadis armbruster, an amazon shopper. like me, she has come to greatly appreciate this browser plug-in (just yesterday i found a better price on a gift on ebay, thanks to wikibuys note). it will search for coupons or better deals quietly in the background, and pipe up when theres a better offer.armbruster also speaks highly of the amazon assistant feature because you can use it to add items from any website to an amazon wishlist, she says. it consolidates all my internet window shopping in one place.subscribe to prime only during heavy shopping monthsamazon prime is cheaper to buy for the full year than it is to pay month by month, but if you dont shop it regularly (and dont use its other features, like media streaming), you may want to consider a monthly membership that you can cancel.for serious shoppers, the $119 [per year] may be a good deal, but for [many] people, its not, says jen hayes, the blogger behind smarty pants finance. a better way is to subscribe to prime for $12.99 per month. you can cancel at any time. how is this a better deal? well, lets say a millennial just moved into their first apartment, moved away from home, got married, or started a new job. that person may need to buy many things in a short amount of time (dishes, silverware, bathroom mat, etc.) they can pay for a month or two of prime when things are really hectic and then cancel prime once they are settled in. i did this last year at christmas. i knew i would be buying several gifts and i didnt have time to wait for stuff to get to me via free shipping. $12.99 for a month of prime ensured all gifts arrived on time and were under the tree on christmas eve. i canceled prime right after christmas and havent needed it since.get your next amazon order for 15 percent off by subscribingif you are shopping amazon consistently, and buying the same stuff on a regular basis, consider subscribing to eligible products.head to the subscribe &amp; save section and tell amazon which products you want sent to your house automatically every few months  like toothpaste, toilet paper, dog food, protein powder. subscribe to five items, and theyll give you 15 percent off every s&amp;s order, evan and nikayla sutherland co-founders of budgeting couple told nbc news better in an email.get that free amazon money via gift cards from these sites and appsthe easiest way to save money on amazon is taking advantage of the countless opportunities to rack up free amazon gift cards, add the sutherlands. cash back sites and apps (like ibotta, drop, and ebates) are willing to hand over free amazon money for simply trying out their app/site once. and thats not to mention all those free survey sites that also pay you in amazon gift cards. heres our full guide to racking up free amazon gift cards fast.wasted and wasting money? shop sober19 percent of millennials (the same ones who would give up alcohol for amazon), are doing their amazon tech shopping while intoxicated, according to the max borges agencys report.shopping when tipsy is a bad idea for obvious reasons  and these purchases add up. the average american spends nearly $450 a year when drunk. consider deleting your amazon app, if only temporarily, if youre planning for a wild night at the bar.no judgments though if youre among the nearly half of survey respondents who shops amazon while on the toilet. thats just efficient multitasking!more shopping tips from your favorite storescostcotargettrader joesstarbuckspanera breadwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

theres nothing quite like the holidays to throw us off of our well-established routines. during the next few weeks, well likely be eating more, exercising less and racing the clock to get holiday shopping and organizing done. keeping your health in check and carving out me time can feel like another challenge, and one that is tempting to push off until the new year.a new survey by vitalsmarts found that 26 percent of people say that trying to stay healthy, active and sober over the holidays is one of their top five stressors, 44 percent of people live by the motto, \"my diet starts in january; 20 percent say they are much more tired and irritable than happy during the holidays, while 10 percent say they have no rules when it comes to health and diet this time of year.the holiday season throws us off balancethe problem, it seems, is that as the holidays set in we start to veer into the extreme behavior of over-indulgence, and we look to january as a time of extreme rebooting, where we dont overspend or eat too much. according to jillian michaels, famed personal trainer and wellness expert, and the author of the new book the 6 keys: unlock your genetic potential for ageless strength, health, and beauty these extreme behaviors are where we start to lose our way and risk our health (and sanity).the number one most important thing is striking a balance, michaels tells nbc news better. when you put the word too in front of anything you have physiological anarchy, and its a recipe for disaster.but how do we bring balance to this hectic time of year?consider this morning routine that can help you start your day with clarity, energy and self-compassion.wake up 15 minutes earlierandy petranek, an extreme athlete and co-founder of the whole life challenge recommends waking up 15 minutes ahead of the alarm during the holidays if only to take ownership of your morning.get your body, brain, and heart jumpstarted, petranek says. get out of your nice warm bed and go out into the cold to remind yourself, yes, [i] can! the colder and nastier, the better. prove to yourself that you can do it, in spite of nature conspiring against you.get the workout out of the waypetranek recommends doing an invigorating workout as soon as you wake up, a piece of advice championed by other experts.try to get your workout out of the way first thing in the morning, says meg josephson, a licensed clinical social worker. sign up for classes that have a strict cancellation policy  having this in advance will make you less likely to overeat and drink the evening before which can be super helpful when you have several holiday events a week.look at how much time youre spending on social media and tell me that you cant get your sweat on for just 20 minutes?if you dont have time to go to the gym, michaels recommends downloading a fitness app, emphasizing that theres no excuse for not doing at 20 to 30 minutes of exercise four times a week. look at how much time youre spending on social media and tell me that you cant get your sweat on for just 20 minutes?have a healthy breakfast (especially if youre going to indulge later)holiday lunches and dinners are brimming with delicious treats that arent exactly healthy. make sure to get at least one healthy meal in, ideally for breakfast.laura arndt, founder of matriarc and a certified strength and conditioning specialist recommends a green smoothie.pack the smoothie full of veggies, fruit, protein powder and a low calorie liquid like low fat milk or almond milk, arndt says. this will help you get almost your entire rda of fruits and veggies, increase your lean protein and help keep you hydrated. it will also help you keep your overall daily calories in check.another nutritious breakfast suggestion comes from brock ohurn, a fitness expert and social media influencer. he recommends organic rolled oats, topped with chia seeds, goji berries, and cinnamon. add a black coffee if youre looking for an extra boost.youll also want to be well-hydrated, so drink plenty of water with breakfast and keep it up throughout the day.petranek recommends setting an alarm on your phone to remind you to drink 12 to 20 ounces of water every three hours.complete a small task to perfectiontheres a lot of pressure to be at our best during the holidays (give the best gift, make the best dinner, have the best time). and yet theres so much that it outside of our hands.to combat this pressure and to regain a sense of control, dr. greg kushnick, a psychologist, recommends completing one small task to perfection each morning.make a perfect cup of coffee, make your bed carefully or clean your kitchen counter, kushnick says. choose a simple task and once its finished, tell yourself, i did it perfectly. repeat this or another simple task every morning.do a 15-20 minute self-care meditationhow might you be kind to yourself through this season? how might you give yourself the gift of expecting or doing less, while enjoying more? these are the questions that annie b. kay, balanced living educator at tone networks and registered dietitian nutritionist says we should be asking ourselves every morning, in as a kind a way as possible.how about taking 15-20 minutes of self-care in the morning? you could try this simple meditation as a morning practice: may i be happy, may i be healthy, and may i stand in the light of my own true self, says kay.or just do five minutes of meditatingmichaels, who resisted meditation until she started researching her most recent book, has found that just a few minutes of meditating can do wonders.even just five minutes of meditation every day has overwhelming benefits, says michaels. appreciate what that will do for your emotional response, impulse control, overall attitude, [and more].its okay if you slack off some mornings, just resume the next daya strict routine morning routine (no matter how beneficial) may not be feasible every day this month, and thats totally fine. in fact, its good to allow yourself some flexibility here  just dont throw it all to the wind if you miss a day or four of prioritizing your wellness.its this all or nothing thinking that creates problems, says michaels. the mentality of balance is just so critical because we get into these swings of up and down and the farther it swings to one end, the farther it swings back to the other.more tips for a better day9 things to do this morning to make your whole day more productive12 tips to master your kids morning routine and eliminate stressthe productivity hack that allowed me to accomplish more in less time15 protein-packed breakfasts that can help curb cravingswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

perpetual problems  every relationship has them, but not every couple knows how to work through them.a perpetual problem endures because you and your partner fundamentally see the situation differently, according to michelle peterson, founder of the marriage blog #staymarried.its one of those things where you bring it up, you try to work it out, and it just stays in your relationship, peterson tells nbc news better.peterson, 39, is the executive director of a nonprofit, and her husband tony, 41, is a software designer. the couple live in somers, wisconsin, and have been happily married for 11 years with three young daughters.like any couple, the petersons experience perpetual problems, but have learned how to live happily in spite of them. heres how.they recognize when their relationship is in gridlockif you and your partner cant see a disagreement eye to eye no matter how much you talk about it, youre probably experiencing gridlock, peterson says.i said the same thing over and over again, and hes still not budging  that is a symptom of gridlock, she says.in the past, peterson often failed to recognize when her relationship was in gridlock, believing she could change her husbands perspective or behavior, she says.whats really happening is youre at an impasse altogether, because youre dealing with something that fundamentally youre not agreeing on, she explains.when they hit gridlock, the couple takes a breakif a perpetual problem in your relationship turns into gridlock, peterson says, its important to understand that fighting isnt going to solve anything.if an argument gets heated, peterson says, she and her husband take a break.the rule is simple: when one partner asks for a break during an argument, the other must honor it, she explains. after about 30 minutes, she says, theyll calmly revisit the issue.usually, you can be more clear headed and understanding once youve been able to temper down your emotions, peterson says.get past the curse of familiaritywhen the couple realized they needed a third-person perspective, they began seeing a marriage counselor in 2015. peterson was surprised to hear her husband tell the therapist things she never knew.he shared things that were so insightful to me that i never considered asking about, she says.peterson says the curse of familiarity had prevented her from asking questions that would have helped her understand him better.youre with somebody long enough, you think you know them, and so you forget to dig a little bit or to ask better questions, or to get curious about each other, she says.seek to understand each other betterpeterson says she no longer focuses on solving problems in her relationship. instead, she says she strives to understand where her husband is coming from.the truth is, you live with a person, you dont live with a solution, she says.to better understand your partner, its important to spend quality time with them alone, says peterson.each night, the couple dedicates 15 minutes to talking alone. they go outside on their deck with no electronics to distract them, she says. peterson calls it their nightly debrief.it doesnt matter what the weather is, it doesnt matter how cold it is  if its super cold well just bundle up extra  but we go outside, no devices, just the two of us, for 15 minutes, she says.give your partner space to make up their own mindin the past, peterson would automatically assume certain situations were problems. now, she says, she no longer makes those assumptions. instead, she asks her husband what he thinks.im approaching him not like i already have the answer, she says, but [with], hey, what do you think about this? does this feel like a problem to you?for example, the couple recently moved into a new apartment that didnt have a washer and dryer. peterson wanted to buy their own appliances, but her husband saw things differently. instead, he takes the familys laundry to a laundromat once a week on his free time.since her husband doesnt see it as a problem, peterson decided not to push the issue.he needs to decide for himself he doesnt want to go to the laundromat anymore, she explains.she says seeking to understand each other, rather than trying to solve perceived problems, has made the relationship stronger despite their fundamental differences.i dont know any non-corny ways to say this, peterson says, but we like each other.how to survive perpetual problems in a relationshiprecognize when youre at an impasse. if you are having the same fight over and over, there is probably a fundamental difference you simply cant agree on.know when to take a break.  recognize that fighting and arguing wont solve anything. if things get heated, ask your partner for a break, take 30 minutes, and revisit the issue with a clear head.get past the curse of familiarity. dont assume that because youve been with someone for a long time that you know and understand everything about them. be curious and ask questions.communicate, communicate, communicate. its important to take time each day to talk. this gives you an opportunity to get to know each others perspective.create space. dont assume that a situation is a problem that needs to be solved. instead, talk to your partner to see how they feel about it. if they dont see it as a problem, give them space to come to their own conclusion.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

my whole life people assumed i was jewish or italian, but more often jewish. i suppose it might be because, as an armenian-american, i share some of the same stereotypical physical characteristics attributed to people from that part of the world.there were times i never really went out of my way to correct any fleeting misconception about my identity because, as a non-religious person, it didnt really matter to me. though armenian identity is formatively entwined with christianity, my parents largely subscribed to their own, private ways of worship. as i grew older and read more about the world, i found it hard to reconcile the practice of blind faith in a single belief system. eventually, i deduced there were common strands of knowledge that ran through all belief systems, but the only way wed know all there was to know was when we were no longer here to tell anyone about it. that said, i always approached organized religion as a curious student, open to learning different theories about lifes mysteries.luckily, i married a man who feels similarly. hes jewish, so i found myself bestowed with the opportunity to learn about holidays people just assumed i always celebrated. we decided to combine forces, celebrating holidays in what i like to call an equal-opportunity-judeo-christian manner, meaning we celebrate passover and easter, hanukkah and christmas, more with the intent of acknowledging the composition of our kids dna than actually engaging in spiritual worship.as a shiksa (non-jewish woman), i wouldnt dare attempt to explain the deeper meaning of hanukkah but i have been told there are many levels to the story. in a nutshell, according to chabad.org, hanukkah (sometimes spelled chanukah) is an eight-day, wintertime festival of lights, celebrated with a nightly menorah lighting, special prayers and fried foods. to paraphrase, the word hanukkah means dedication because it celebrates the rededication of the holy temple in jerusalem to g-d after a small group of pious jews, led by judah the maccabee, defeated the seleucids (syrian-greeks) when they tried to force the people of israel to accept greek culture and beliefs way back in second century bce. they went to light the temples menorah (candelabra) and found the one-day supply of oil that was left lasted for eight days, giving them time to find more oil. this is the reason eight candles are now lit  one for each night  in candelabras.ive come to love celebrating hanukkah  and not just for my husbands fantastic latkes. its beautiful to watch him and our children honor his ancestry as he dons his yarmulke, recites the blessings and lights the candles. i admire how so many aspects of jewish worship and tradition honors the endurance of their culture against all odds (as of this past rosh hashanah, the jewish new year, its 5779) as much as it does what their culture believes. and, considering what my own ancestors have endured, i can relate in my own way.through language and ritual, we are charged with keeping our native cultures alive, yet, we are americans and by the sheer act of choosing each other, some would question if im armenian enough, or hes jewish enough.in many ways, our cultures are remarkably similar in that, both armenians and jews descend from survivors of genocide/holocaust, a resulting diaspora and the challenge of having to assimilate as immigrants into various adopted cultures. through language and ritual, we are charged with keeping our native cultures alive, yet, we are americans and by the sheer act of choosing each other, some would question if im armenian enough, or hes jewish enough.in a recent new york times essay, a jewish writer considered how a holiday that commemorates a battle against assimilation is the very battle most assimilated jews now celebrate. the writer explains how the story of hanukkah is based on a historical conflict between the maccabees and the hellenized jews, the former being religious zealots who lived in the hills of judea and practiced an ancient form of guerrilla warfare, the latter being mostly city-dwelling assimilationists who ate pork, didnt circumcise their male children and made the occasional sacrificial offering to pagan gods. because he feels hanukkah, in essence, commemorates the triumph of fundamentalism over cosmopolitanism, it leads him to question if he wouldve been considered pious enough (he goes to yoga, occasionally eats pork) to be accepted by the maccabees.again, i am in absolutely no position to make a call about this writers predicament. but, what i can say, is that he is the product of a formidable legacy of survival. and, like my husband, he respects that enough to want to keep its treasured rituals going. if that isnt an act of faith in and of itself, i dont know what is.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

we enter the holidays with the best of intentions: eating a healthy meal before heading to holiday parties; squeezing in a workout a few times a week; and doing our best to stick to just one cookie.but as much as we set ourselves up for success, a monthlong cycle of open bars and dessert tables will undoubtedly test our willpower. eating healthy and staying committed to your workouts is much easier said than done this season. especially in those moments when youre standing in front of moms famous mac and cheese, walk in to find a huge cookie tray in the office kitchen or get a last-minute invite for a fun night out with friends (when you had intended to hit the gym).and all of those opportunities to indulge can begin to show up on your waistline. theres differing statistics on how much the average weight gain is over the holidays, but one thing thats for sure is that when people do gain weight it takes them on average five months to lose it after the holidays. you dont have to deprive yourself, but it is something to be mindful of, says stephanie mansour, personal trainer and ceo of step it up with steph.since many of mansours clients are worried about maintaining their hard-earned weight loss over the holidays, she has developed some tactics they can use to make decisions that will keep them feeling good all month long, while still being able to enjoy everything the season to offer (yes, even the cookies and cocktails).keep these tips in your back pocket for the next time youre tempted to skip a workout and indulge in a treat.do a palate cleansenext time youre going into the fridge for an extra piece of pie or reaching for another cookie, stop yourself in your tracks and change your taste buds.my mom makes these thumbprint cookies and i could eat ten of them. in order to stop myself from doing that  since im a recovered sweet-a holic  i change my taste buds, says mansour. i go to the fridge and get a piece of broccoli, which is kind of bitter, or a piece of a pepper to rewire [my] craving. i tell this to my clients all the time, if you find that youre craving chips or cookies or another piece of pizza, put a vegetable in your mouth, chew it, swallow it, and change your taste buds. nine times out of ten, youre not going to want whatever it was that you were craving.put your workout clothes on and just stretchnext time you think about skipping your workout and are feeling unmotivated, make a deal with yourself that youll just stretch.instead of just standing up in your work clothes or sitting on the couch and doing some stretches, i want you to take this a step further and actually go put on your workout clothes and [sneakers] and do your stretches in your gear, says mansour. if youre in your gear and you feel how good it feels to stretch your body and move around, youre probably going to want to do more stretches and you may even want to do the actual workout you had planned.make a bargain with yourselfif sweets are your kryptonite, mansour has a trick to prevent the mindless munching: make a deal with yourself.make a bargain with yourself. say sure, i can have that if i want, but im committing to doing something positive for my body first, she says. if you walk around your house or apartment five times, you can have another one. if you walk for 500 steps, you can have another one. if you do 20 squats, you can have another one. bargain with yourself to get moving before youre allotted another round of sweets.have a one-word mantra for the monthcreating positive affirmation mantras is something that mansour does with her weight-loss clients. she has them write down what they see themselves doing and how they see themselves feeling once they reach their goal.for the holidays, some of us dont have time for that. so i want you to pick one word and any time youre thinking about making an unhealthy decision, whether its food or skipping a workout or not taking care of yourself, i want you to think of that one word that means something to you, she says. this word can be anything from strong to determined  even skinny if that resonates with you. for me, control resonates because i want to feel in control of my choices. so when im thinking of having something that i know is going to make me feel bloated or lethargic, i think of the word control.\"reschedule every workout you skipits not uncommon for plans to pop up last minute this time of year. and you dont have to say no to things you really want to do just because you have a workout on the calendar. but when a fun alternative pops up, mansour says to immediately reschedule for another time to prevent the workout from falling off your calendar altogether.lets say you signed up for a spin class, and youre skipping out on it to go to a happy hour or dinner with a friend whos in town, then you need to stop right then and there, go into your calendar and reschedule that exact workout, she says. if it was a spin class, youre going or schedule it for tomorrow or the next day, whatever works. but sign up for that class and put it in your calendar and then you can feel good about skipping that workout and doing the other thing that came up.mansour says these tactics should enable you to find some middle ground  and be able to actually enjoy the season, but still hold yourself accountable.i never want anyone to feel guilty  life happens. were not trying to be perfect, were just trying to feel at peace with ourselves and our decisions, she says. enjoy this time. enjoy the food you only get a few times a year, enjoy your friends, enjoy your family and still feel in control or strong or determined, without feeling guilty about it.holiday survival guideholiday hangover: how to bounce back from the food, booze and emotional stresshow to connect and find common ground in any situation3 holiday savings hacks thatll save you hundreds3 ways to go on a holiday social media detoxwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

food plays a huge role in our lives. it brings people together, introduces new cuisines and cultures, and nourishes our bodies  and minds. so when you give someone on your list a cookbook, youre offering them a gift that truly keeps on giving.equipped with a new cookbook, they can try dishes theyve never experienced before, for breakfast, lunch, dinner, and special occasions. whether youre shopping for a serious foodie, an avid home chef, a vegan, a health nut, or a passionate grillmaster, youll find a title thats sure to please on the list below.better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.breakfast: the most important book about the best meal of the day, by the editors of extra crispy, $16, amazonperfect for anyone who loves eggs for dinner, this book, from the editors of extracrispy.com, covers how to make all the breakfast and brunch essentials. perfect everything from crispy french toast and fluffy pancakes, to barista-style drinks and even commercial favorites, like entenmanns cake doughnuts and taco bell crunchwraps.cook like a pro, by ?ina garten, $21, amazonina garten, a.k.a. the barefoot contessa, has written twelve cookbooks, has a tv show, and has built a massive food empire  without any classic training. in her latest cookbook, she shares her secrets to cooking like a pro, including her tips for custardy, slow-cooked truffled scrambled eggs, as well as the juicy fried chicken sandwiches.red truck bakery cookbook?, by brian noyes?, $17, amazonthis rural virginia bakery counts barack obama and mary chapin carpenter among its fans, and its charming new cookbook contains 85 southern baking recipes for cookies, cakes, pies, and more. between the sweet-as-can-be recipes, the book is also filled with touching stories and photographs of beautiful landscapes.at my table: a celebration of home cooking, by nigella lawson, $24, amazonwith more 100 mouthwatering food photographs, lawsons latest cookbook will help you create a fine dining experience right in your own kitchen. the recipes are simple, with unique ingredients and rich flavors, from fresh vegetable dishes such as eastern mediterranean chopped salad and carrots and fennel with harissa to entrees such as chicken fricassee and chili mint lamb cutlets.food for thought, by cristina ferrare, $20, amazonwith a foreword by maria shriver, this new cookbook provides the ultimate brain food. its filled with recipes that promote brain health, as well as overall well-being, such as avocado toast and peanut butter amazeballs. plus, a portion of the proceeds from the book will go to the womens alzheimers movement.magnolia table: a collection of recipes for gathering, by joanna gaines, $14, amazongaines believes theres no better way to celebrate family and friendship than through sharing a great meal together. now, you can take a page from her (cook)book, and share one of her personal favorite recipes with your own family. choose from 125 delicious recipes, like chicken pot pie and asparagus and fontina quiche.30-minute cooking for two: healthy dishes without all the fuss, by taylor ellingson, $14, amazona perfect present for newlyweds, this book is filled with recipes that require no more than eight staple ingredients per recipe. plus, theyre healthy, fresh, and use limited amounts of processed food. this book also provides shopping lists with pantry stables and essential cooking equipment.cravings: hungry for more, by chrissy teigen and adeena sussman, $18, amazonchrissy teigen proves that models can cook  really darn well. her second book, a follow-up to the bestselling cravings, features her relatable (and hilarious) voice, along with drool-worthy dishes jalapeno parmesan-crusted grilled cheese. she includes lighter options too, like a butternut squash and pomegranate salad with garlicky honey-dijon dressing.waste not: how to get the most from your food, by the james beard foundation, $41, amazondid you know that 40 percent of all food produced in the u.s.  where one in six people go hungry  gets thrown away? this cookbook taps into chefs innate knowledge of preventing food waste to help you make the most of food that might otherwise get tossed. curated by the james beard foundation, recipes in the book include swiss chard stem gratin, tahini pomegranate snapper collars, and asparagus bottom aioli.ottolenghi simple: a cookbook, by yotam ottolenghi, $14, amazonsimple isnt usually a word associated with london chef ottolenghis recipes. but his newest cookbook proves that his signature middle easterninspired meals can be prepared without as much effort as you think. in this book, all recipes fit at least one of these criteria: it can made in 30 minutes or less, with 10 or fewer ingredients, in a single pot, using pantry staples, or prepared ahead of time.solo: a modern cookbook for a party of one, by anita lo, $18, amazonlo, a michelin-starred chef and iron chef contestant, has written a cookbook thats empowering and practical. along with personal stories about life as a chef, she gives readers 101 simple yet sophisticated recipes that serve one, such as chicken pho, slow cooker shortrib with caramelized endive, duck bolognese, and even a single-serving new england clambake.all about cake, by christina tosi, $19, amazonin her latest cookbook, tosi, the mastermind behind momofuku milk bar, covers all the sugary sweets you could possibly dream of. her signature naked layer cakes are included, but theres also more approachable recipes for bakers who arent quite there yet, including two-minute microwave mug cakes, buttery bundts and pounds, and much more.sweet home caf cookbook: a celebration of african american cooking, by the national museum of african american history and culture, $20, amazonbring home the taste of the sweet home caf, housed inside dcs national museum of african american history and culture. showcasing dishes with african, caribbean, and european influences, this beautiful book includes recipes such as pea tendril salad, fried green tomatoes, hoppin john, sngalaise peanut soup, and more, along with stories that illustrate the pivotal role that african americans have played in american cuisine.chloe flavor: saucy, crispy, spicy, vegan, by chloe coscarelli, $16, amazonchef chloe coscarellis new york city restaurant, by chloe, revolutionized how people think about vegan food. shes proven that plant-based recipes can be exciting, flavorful, and filling  and healthy at the same time. even carnivores wont miss the meat in recipes like smoky grits &amp; greens, mango-guacamole crunch burgers, and sea salted chocolate chunk cookies.giadas italy: my recipes for la dolce vita, by giada de laurentiis, $21, amazonin de laurentiis latest, she goes back to her italian roots, while adding her own unique californian and american influences. here, shares somewhere lighter, no-fuss versions of authentic italian classics, such as spaghetti with chianti and fava beans, asparagus with grilled melon salad, and avocado white bean dip.michael symons playing with fire: bbq and more from the grill, smoker and fireplace, $20, amazongive this to the grillmaster in your life. symons recent release covers his favorite food  meat  with over 70 finger-licking recipes that draw inspiration from all over the country, including dry ribs from memphis, wet ribs from nashville, brisket from texas, pork steak from st. louis, and burnt ends from kansas city, to name a few.the instant pot bible by bruce weinstein and mark scarbrough, $15, amazonthis book will make a perfect gift for your friend whos obsessed with her new instant pot. with more than 350 recipes, along with instructions and timing for every type of instant pot, this book is the most instant pot cookbook ever published. youll find recipes for everything from hearty breakfasts to healthy sides, from centerpiece stews and roasts to decadent desserts.better-for-you recipesbeyond chicken noodle: 8 feel-good soups top chefs swear by13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonighthealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for youwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

everyone struggles to get dinner on the table night after night  yes, even top chefs and other food professionals. and during the hectic holiday season with all the focus on feasting and parties, its even harder to plan regular meals. here, chefs and other food pros, including julia turshen, giada de laurentiis, kevin curry, michael solomonov, steven cook and lindsay-jean hard, share their favorite quick and easy dinner  ideas  the tried and true dishes they turn to when their lives are busy.with these recipes for baked pasta, sheet-pan chicken, eggs for dinner, slow-cooker meatballs and more, youll have dinner ready in less than the time it takes to stream a sitcom.celebration chicken with sweet potatoes and datesdont be scared off by the word \"celebration\" in the title of this recipe from julia turshen, the author of numerous cookbooks, including \"feed the resistance\", \"small victories\" and \"now &amp; again\", as well as the founder of equity at the table. while the dish is fit for a party, its far from fussy to make. \"this is the easiest thing to make for a group, whether its a weeknight dinner or a celebratory meal,\" says turshen. \"you get a main dish (chicken) and a side dish (sweet potatoes and dates) in one and you mix everything directly in the roasting dish and set it and forget it  no bowls to clean or anything. so easy and so good. i make this over and over again.\"stovetop chicken tetrazziniwhen you dont have an hour and a half to make giada de laurentiis traditional chicken tetrazzini, this simplified stovetop version is the perfect solution. \"this is my classic recipe, adapted to be even easier for weeknights,\" says the tv personality, cookbook author and restaurateur. \"i use rotisserie chicken to speed things up. the cleanup is a breeze.\"5-minute hummushummus can be way more than a snack, especially if you throw a few toppings on it and serve it with bread or pita. \"a plate of hummus with apricots and pine nuts doesnt need more than a couple of ounces of ground beef seasoned with turkish coffee to make a convincing dinner,\" michael solomonov and steven cook write in \"israeli soul\", the follow up to their james beard award-winning cookbook \"zahav\". \"and vegetarians and vegans can rejoice in a world where hummus topped with avocado and peanut harissa exists.\" israeli soul offers up 24 hummus topping ideas, including spiced carrots, corn salad, lima beans with tomato and cinnamon, roasted butternut squash and chicken salad with tahini. use your imagination and your leftovers: a plate of hummus with leftover cooked vegetables, a couple of hard-boiled eggs and a drizzle of olive oil is a hearty, healthy and protein-rich dinner thatll power you up for whatever your evening holds.one-pot creamy orzo with prosciutto and peas\"this one-pot pasta goes from prep to table in 20 minutes flat,\" giada de laurentiis says of this speedy dish made with tiny orzo pasta, frozen peas and cherry tomatoes. \"orzo cooks quickly, and the tomatoes and peas add a healthy serving of veggies. bonus: kids love it!\"italian flag baked pastawho doesnt love a bubbly, cheesy baked pasta? this make-ahead baked pasta recipe from julia turshen can be made with ground turkey, beef, pork or chicken  or no meat at all. it calls for frozen spinach and canned crushed tomatoes, saving you last minute trips to the grocery store for fresh produce. \"this is the best crowd-pleaser and a great thing to make ahead and pop in the oven right as your friends or family walk in the door,\" says turshen. \"its filling and familiar and everyone loves it.\" 5-ingredient keto salmon alfredo\"weeknight recipes are all about simplicity,\" says fitmencook founder and author of the new cookbook \"fit men cook\", kevin curry. \"and my salmon alfredo recipe is made with only five ingredients!\" the dish is made with zucchini noodles instead of pasta so its gluten free and low carb. curry says its a delicious way to try out the keto diet.slow cooker turkey meatballsif you tend to have more time in the morning than at the end of the day, youre probably already good friends with your slow cooker. and you need just 15 minutes in the morning to prepare these saucy turkey meatballs from giada de laurentiis. \"prep these in the morning and pop in the slow cooker to simmer all day,\" says de laurentiis. \"all they need come dinnertime is some freshly grated parm!\"southwest shrimp quinoa\"you know all those bags of quinoa you have in your pantry that you almost regret buying because you have no idea how to use it?\" asks kevin curry. \"trust me  i know the struggle!\" his answer is this fast, protein-packed stir-fry with quinoa, black beans, shrimp, onion, garlic, peppers and a variety of dried spices. the basic recipe is almost endlessly customizable. \"in fact, choose whatever grain and protein you have on hand and just add the flavors in this recipe!\" says curry.\"clean out the crisper\" oven frittata\"i love having eggs for dinner,\" says lindsay-jean hard, author of the new cookbook \"cooking with scraps\" and the food52 column by the same name. frittatas are particularly easy, she notes, because they have no crust (unlike quiche) and can be baked in the oven so theyre largely hands-off. \"plus theyre easily adaptable to whatever stragglers you have in the fridge  veggies, cheeses other odds and ends,\" says hard. \"one of my friends adds tater tots to hers and now im a convert. i add them in whenever i have them on hand.\"you dont even really need a recipe to make a frittata: simply beat eggs with salt and pepper, scatter cooked vegetables and any other add-ins you like in a greased oven-safe skillet or pan, pour the egg mixture over the top and bake at 350f until the eggs are set, about 15 to 20 minutes. hard also likes mixing a little liquid or \"liquidish\" dairy, such as milk, plain yogurt or sour cream in with the eggs to improve the flavor and texture of the frittata, but thats optional.better-for-you recipesbeyond chicken noodle: 8 feel-good soups top chefs swear by13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonighthealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for youwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

netflix subscribers were thrown for a loop on monday, when a rumor that the nbc hit 90s sitcom friends would be leaving the streaming service swept the internet.evidently, fans had looked at the details page of friends on netflix and noted that the content was listed as available only through jan. 1, 2019. they then inferred that this meant friends was being axed from netflix, where its been available for nearly four years.netflix responded to the hysteria with a tweet declaring that in fact, no, \"friends\" was not going anywhere.the tweet was liked over 188,000 times and retweeted nearly 75,000 times, indicating massive rejoice.friends has a universal appeal like no other showi personally dont really care for \"friends\", which makes me something of a social pariah among my peers (im 35, and almost all my friends are fans of the show). ive seen countless episodes (theyre rather impossible to avoid), yet i just dont feel a connection with it and i find everyone very annoying.given that my feelings about this show are lukewarm at best, i was able to view, with an outsiders fascination, the upset the netflix rumor prompted in so many people. i found myself asking, what is it about this show that gives it such a universal appeal and is so relatable for many?i took my questions to clinical psychologist and relationship expert dr. carla marie manly as well as to writer kelsey miller, author of the book ill be there for you: the one about friends, to gain some insight into this phenomenon.we relate to the characters neuroses  and can use them to understand our ownmanly, though not much a fan of friends knows it very, very well. shes essentially studied it because clients bring it up so often in sessions.my 30-something-year-old clients often bring up friends, says manly. i have one client who identifies deeply with chandler, so ive had to investigate chandler, as this client is very guarded and doesnt like to talk about much. i know about chandlers third nipple and his effeminate attitude and sarcasm. in a sense, this client is talking about their own issues by talking about chandlers.yes, a therapist is essentially psychoanalyzing a tv character to better understand her patient. i find this astonishingly brilliant (and bizarre), but manly suggests this isnt so out of the ordinary, noting that shell often ask clients who may be guarding trauma or other issues who their favorite superhero was as a child.\"friends\" may not feature superheroes, but it does showcase what you might call super-neurotics  and it does so in safe, jovial way. \"friends\" revels in an environment where nothing crazy is really that crazy, and where no quirk or personality flaw, no matter how extreme, can ever disconnect you from the love and support of your best pals.when people feel like they can see themselves in another person, they feel that they are not alone  theyre not too eccentric, manly says. take joey. hes one that some of my male clients identify with because hes very awkward and goofy. or phoebe  some look at her and see their own eccentricities or their familys. they identify with it and when they do, theyre not isolated anymore. [additionally] a lot of people live alone and dont have a lot of friends. watching friends is way of vicariously experiencing friendship.friends revels in an environment where nothing crazy is really that crazy, and where no quirk or personality flaw, no matter how extreme, can ever disconnect you from the love and support of your best pals.my immediate retort to manly is, thats depressing! as im thinking about how i maybe, sort of have this relationship with seinfeld.its not depressing, manly asserts, because its comforting, and you know what? its better than nothing.friends gives us a big dose of aspirational normalcymiller, who you may call a friends expert given her book on the subject, highlights the cultural pressure points that have driven interest (both old and new).it comes down to this one thing that [media executive] lauren zalaznick brought up to me when i was interviewing her for the book called aspirational normalcy, miller tells nbc news better. television really represents the national mood, economy and political events of its time, and in the 90s, the vibe was this aspirational normalcy and the appearance of attainability. friends is like real life, but a little bit better. the characters have relatable problems with dating, looking for work,and struggling with their parents, but everything is fine and everything works out.and its not just americans who can relate. miller notes that friends, has been broadcast in some 200 countries and translated into nearly just as many languages.it connected so many people and it never really went away, miller says. there was a resurgence of interest around 2014 or so, when the [pop culture] nostalgia cycle hit the mid-90s point, but there was never a time when friends wasnt being aired, and it bled into so many other parts of culture: the fashion, the famous haircut. theres even research that shows it influenced our speech patterns and the sarcasm we use.but beyond all these touchstones and trends that the show so perfectly encapsulated in friends, the main reason the show is such an enduring success is quite self-explanatory  titular, in fact.ultimately the big core reason friends was so universally popular and remains so is the fact that it is a show about friendship, says miller. thats it. the entire concept, the whole show, is about the experience of having friends. everyone can relate to that, yet not everyone has experienced friendship in such a magical style. it also speaks to the times in our lives when your friends took primacy and mean everything to you. thats an era not in the 90s, but an era in our lives, and thats what makes it hit so hard.more from bettercant wait for \"making a murderer 2\"? this is why youre hooked on true crime storieswhat happens to your brain when you binge watch tv6 ways \"this is us\" is basically free therapywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

in 2017, i wrote out a list of 25 money goals i would accomplish over the year. i had recently turned 25, so the arbitrary number seemed fitting. plus, i was still pretty new to the whole caring-about-money thing, and there were a ton of ways i wanted to get my finances under control, both directly and indirectly. my goals ranged from things like paying off my credit card debt and saving for a big trip to only ordering from seamless once a month and finally nailing down an at-home fitness routine.but heres the thing: setting all those goals didnt work. yes, i reached several  i managed to save for and go on a big trip to germany as well as pay off my credit card debt (which was around $3,000 at its highest point). i got better about planning my meals, and i finally opened a high-interest online savings account, something id been meaning to do for years. but by giving myself so many things to focus on, i let some of my most important goals fall by the wayside.namely, i didnt max out my retirement account contributions, even though id intended to. i have a roth ira, which at the time had a maximum contribution limit of $5,500 annually (it has since been raised to $6,000 starting in 2019). i know the importance of investing early and often, and the power of compound interest  yet in 2017, i only managed to put away about half of my contribution limit.its comforting to know that i wasnt (and still am not) alone in feeling like i lack in the financial planning department. according to northwestern mutuals 2018 planning &amp; progress study, more than eight out of 10 (82 percent) millennials say their financial planning needs improvement, compared to only 63 percent of baby boomers and 79 percent of gen xers.i realized the two biggest reasons i wasnt able to reach my retirement contributions goal: i was dividing my attention between too many objectives, and i wasnt treating this as mandatory spending. i dont have an employer-sponsored 401k or other retirement plan. i cant put my retirement contributions on autopilot  something i would 100% recommend people do  because i dont get paid the same amount or at the same time each month. so, since its entirely my own fault whether i do or dont make my monthly contributions, i let myself slack. i didnt make it a priority, so it never became one.multitasking becomes monotaskingmultitasking wasnt working for me, so when 2018 rolled around, i decided to try a different approach: monotasking. by focusing on one goal at a time, you will see progress sooner and can focus 100 percent of your attention on one thing versus pieces of your attention on multiple things, explains brian walsh, manager of financial planning at sofi.i knew that maxing out my retirement contributions was something i needed to plan for every year, not just this one year. but because i hadnt done it before, the thought of figuring out how to save $5,500 in one year was a bit daunting. so, i made it my one goal to focus on for the year.now, theres one major reason i was able to focus on this one goal: i was in good financial shape otherwise. my emergency fund was in solid standing for a healthy single woman in her twenties, and id tackled all of my credit card debt the previous year. i wasnt planning to try and do anything else major, like a down payment on a house. and while i still planned to go on a few vacations, i knew they werent my top priority.i use a robo-advisor for my retirement investment account, and i can login and see how my money is doing whenever i want to. theres even a little graph that shows my how much ive made off my investments since first opening the account. i know being able to track my progress has been a huge part of finally being able to reach this goal. as walsh explains, seeing progress will maintain or even increase your motivation which will help you stay on track and ultimately accomplish your goal.of course, its likely not a good idea to focus so much on one goal that the rest of your financial life suffers as collateral. focusing only on one goal at a time is far too limiting, says nick holeman, cfp of betterment for business. for example, if your goal was to pay off your mortgage, that may take you decades. and that means decades of not saving towards other important goals like retirement, and not allowing compound interest to work its magic.instead, he recommends something called the waterfall approach, which involves prioritizing your goals based on whats most important to your life right now. list all of your goals, and then prioritize them. start with the most important and make sure you are saving enough money each month to reach that goal in its intended time horizon. then waterfall your way down your list of goals until you have no more money to save each month.i realized the two biggest reasons i wasnt able to reach my retirement contributions goal: i was dividing my attention between too many objectives, and i wasnt treating this as mandatory spending.i have to admit, while it feels like this one goal has been my only priority this year, its definitely led me to reach other goals as well. for instance, i worked to increase my income so that i wouldnt feel the sting of setting aside $400-500 towards retirement each month. while my motivation may have maxing out my roth ira for 2018, the result is setting myself on an upward trajectory when it comes to my earnings  im already expecting to earn more in 2019 than i did in 2018.its now one month before the end of the year, and i plan to make my final roth ira contribution after getting a paycheck next week. im so happy that ive gotten here, but i also know im not done  ive simply established the good saving and investing habits i need to keep moving in the right direction financially. that way, ill have a solid foundation so that adding more and bigger goals in the future wont feel like such a burden.more from betterhow to pay off your loans using the debt avalanche methodhow to get out of debt and build a wealth snowballhow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow the 50-20-30 rule can help you get out of debt and save moneywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

fair warning: after reading this article, you can no longer use cold temperatures as an excuse to skip your workout. while exercising on a blustery, 30-degree day may not be as pleasant as a sunny and 75-degree day, it is possible  and even enjoyable, if you do it right.the key is to dress correctly. as the norwegians say: theres no bad weather; only bad clothing. whether youre heading out for a run or hitting the slopes, the following tips  and gear  will help you stay warm and dry.1. layer upthe main rule of thumb for winter workouts: layer, layer, layer. youll want to wear two to three layers, depending on how cold it is, the wind chill and your level of acclimation to the cold, says rebekah mayer, national run program manager and certified run coach at life time.a moisture-wicking base layer, like merino wool, works great in cold weather, says paul ronto, a marathon runner and director of digital content and research at run repeat. merino wool keeps you warm, doesnt get smelly throughout a hard workout and wicks moisture better than synthetic materials, which is crucial on winter outings, he explains. avoid cotton, which gets damp and doesnt dry easily.for the second layer, pick a lightweight jacket or vest in a synthetic material, like polyester or fleece. finally, a windproof jacket, with or without insulation depending on the temperature, makes for a perfect outer layer.but you might want to start with one less layer than you think you need. you should actually feel a little chilly when you first walk outside, as your core temperature will rise as you exercise, explains tom holland, exercise physiologist and author of \"the marathon method\". if you are warm when you first start, you might be overdressed.what to wear by temperature40 to 50 degrees: lightweight capris or shorts with a long-sleeve shirt layered over a t-shirt or tank. once you warm up, you may want to remove the long-sleeve top. wear light gloves and an ear band if your extremities run cold.30 to 40 degrees: lightweight running pants or capris with a long sleeve shirt or light jacket, layered over a t-shirt. light gloves and a headband or hat protect sensitive extremities.20 to 30 degrees: lightweight or windproof/thermal running pants, depending on the wind-chill. on top, wear a light long sleeve base layer paired with a windbreaker. gloves or mittens and a hat are essential, and thermal socks may be needed to keep toes warm.10 to 20 degrees: thermal/windproof pants will keep your legs warm, paired with a thermal base layer and winter running jacket on top. add a buff or face mask. consider investing in a waterproof trail shoe or winter running shoe for more warmth. switch from gloves to mittens, especially if you have raynauds disease or other reason for cold extremities.0 to 10 degrees: wear thermal/windproof pants, with an additional base layer tight added below if needed. depending on the weight of your running jacket, you may need to add another later underneath, or a winter running vest over your jacket. switch out a lightweight buff for a thermal buff, or a warmer face mask. if your hands run cold, add hand warmers to your mittens.below 0 degrees: add a thermal layer below your thermal pants, and a warm vest over your jacket. add a second buff (either on your neck or wrapped around your arm) to switch out when the first one gets frosty. use hand warmers, and minimize any exposed skin.2. accessorize smartlyhat and gloves are a must-have for winter workouts. your hands will get especially cold, since your circulation in your hands worsens as your body works harder, ronto explains. id say find really warm gloves to ensure youre not wasting precious energy trying to warm your hands throughout your workout.a winter hat will work in extremely cold temps, but if its not too chilly, a baseball hat might be a better bet. you can easily overheat in a winter hat and just end up holding it in your hand, ronto notes. a ball cap, on the other hand, keeps snow and rain out of your eyes without causing you to overheat. a running headband also works to keep ears warm, without too much extra insulation. if youre skiing, youll want to wear a helmet (and a buff or face mask if its particularly chilly), as well as heavy-duty ski gloves.3. step up your footwearyour regular running shoes should do fine on most cold-weather runs if the terrain isnt too wet or icy. if streets are wet from freeze and thaw cycles, however, look for water-resistant shoes with gore-tex, ronto suggests. you can usually find this material in trail running shoes.black ice can also be a big danger for runners and walkers. choose your route wisely and go more slowly than usual, and consider using special traction devices that attach to your shoes, like yaktrax, he suggests. (see recommended gear, below.) finally, choose shoes that have reflective elements, which can help with visibility since it gets darker earlier in the winter.4. hydratedont forget to drink plenty of water! it can difficult to remember to drink when you are bundled up and cant feel yourself sweating, explains aaron gray, md, sports medicine physician at university of missouri health care. however, you still need extra water to replace what you lose through exercise, even in extreme cold.5. protect your skinyes, you still need to wear sunscreen. the sun is just as strong, if not more, on winter days  especially in youre exercising reflective snow. vaseline also comes in handy in the winter, mayer says. its a simple barrier when applied to your face or other exposed skin before a cold or windy run.6. use common sensesometimes, its simply too cold to work out in the great outdoors. to avoid frostbite, avoid working out when the windchill is in the negative temperatures  especially -15 degrees or less, holland says. in that case, a treadmill or gym session will have to suffice!finally, if you suffer from asthma, have poor blood circulation or heart problems, you may be at higher risk for complications from cold weather exercise. always check with your doctor before heading out.need winter exercise gear? try these pro picks for for womenbetter editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.mizuno running half zip hoodie, starting at $29, amazonthis makes a perfect baselayer. mizunos thermo fabric is sweat activated, so it heats up to keep you warm as you run, while wicking away sweat to keep you dry.salomon womens trail runner tight, starting at $125, amazonthese windproof running pants are tight enough around the ankles to move well during fast runs, but have enough space underneath to add a base layer on the coldest days.smartwool mid-crew socks, starting at $21, amazonmade with high-performance merino wool, these lightweight socks keep your feet warm and dry, without feeling bulky.the north face freedom insulated pants, starting at $249, amazonif youre hitting the slopes or going for long snowy hikes, youll want to invest in some insulated all-mountain pants, like these. they have plenty of pockets for extra supplies, too.spyder syrround down hybrid hoody, starting at $229, amazonwith 600 fill down, this specialized puffer jacket will keep you warm whether youre on the slopes or on the street. it also has stretch panels on the sides to allow for freedom of movement, and when you warm up, you can fold it up and pop it into its own pocket.yaktrax, $26.36, amazonthese genius traction cleats give you shoes some extra grip on icy walks and runs.more running advicewhat you need to know before running outdoorsthe right way to train for a marathon (from someone who learned the hard way)how strength training can prevent running injuriesi tried the alterg anti-gravity treadmill to fix my running formwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the word casserole may conjure up not-so-tasty memories of your mom throwing noodles, meat and sauce into a baking dish to create her famous casserole surprise. but with the rise in popularity of one-pot recipes, casseroles are making a comeback in a big way.as a matter of fact, youve probably been invited to one or more potluck dinners this holiday season  they are a popular way to celebrate with colleagues at the office, your monthly book club or a group of friends. with the help of new tools like the instant pot (and not-so-new tools, like a good old slow cooker, skillet or casserole dish) whipping up a one-dish wonder for a party is easier than ever. not only can many of these recipes be made ahead of time, they are also extremely easy to transport and reheat. plus, they taste so good that your friends will soon be referring to you as master chef.spanish-style chicken in tomato saucethis simple dish delivers on flavor and aroma. just one skillet is required to brown the chicken and then simmer in a tomato bath. garnish with parsley and olives for a fresh and salty bite. make it in a cast-iron skillet, cover with aluminum foil and bring it straight to the party. when you arrive, just simmer it for 5 to 10 minutes on the stove-top to warm it up!southwestern cauliflower rice casserolewhile most baked casseroles include some sort of pasta or grain, this recipe uses cauliflower rice instead. perfect for vegetarians, this casserole is packed with meatless protein from the black beans and cottage cheese. admittedly, roasting the sweet potatoes ahead of time adds about 20 minutes to the prep work, but you can omit the tubers if youre short on time. best of all, this casserole can be made days in advance and reheated when its time to eat!chicken florentine with sun-dried tomatoesthis one-pot meal cooks chicken, pasta and veggies in one pan. simply start by cooking the chicken in a skillet, then add the sauce, pasta and veggies and youve got a flavorful one-pot meal in 20 minutes. not to mention that a box of pasta is extremely affordable and can feed a crowd. throw this in a tupperware to bring to the party or transport it right in the skillet.vegetarian enchilada casseroleif youre looking for a simple, customizable meal to please vegetarians at the party, look no further than this meatless enchilada casserole. the recipe calls for zucchini, mushrooms, bell peppers and onions, but you can sub in whatever type of veggie suits your fancy. the same goes for the type of tortilla  flour, wheat or rice work just fine. bake it all in a casserole dish and bring it with you to add some spicy flair to your next potluck.spring tortilla de patatadont let the name scare you off: this one-pot meal is extremely straightforward and a real crowd-pleaser. a traditional spanish tortilla is baked eggs and potato, but this one also includes asparagus for a hint of color and texture. this recipe may seem too simple for a party, but pair it with a baguette and everyone will be asking for seconds. plus, anything looks fancy when you serve it right out of a cast-iron skillet.vegetarian buffalo cauliflower wing dipgrab your food processor and baking dish for this incredibly tasty vegetarian buffalo dip. no potluck party is complete without a cheesy dip, and this one does not disappoint. but there is a little secret: its actually quite healthier than the traditional buffalo dip because of some easy swaps. use cauliflower instead of chicken, greek yogurt in place of cream cheese and cut back on the cheese. not only is this dip spicy and cheesy, its vegetarian, gluten-free, fiber-filled and satisfying.chicken tikka masalathis indian-inspired dish cooks in the instant pot, and its sure to stand-out from the standard casseroles at the potluck. coated in aromatic spices, yogurt and lemon juice, the chicken is juicy and is accompanied by nutritious veggies, like cauliflower and tomatoes. youll need about every spice in your cupboard to make the orangey red sauce, which is sure to be showstopper.spinach and artichoke quinoa bakeis this one pot cheesy dish a dip or an entree? you decide. it combines cooked quinoa with feta cheese, milk, egg, spinach, artichokes, beans and white wine and its all topped with mozzarella cheese. while you can eat it right out of the pan with a fork, it pairs really well with some toasted french bread. either way, its all baked in a casserole dish and is easy to transport to any party. just reheat, serve and let your guests decide how they want to eat it!one-pot moroccan tagine with dried apricots and chickpeasif youve never had tagine before, let me introduce you to your new favorite dish. it gets its name from the cooking vessel, the tagine  a north african clay pot with a wide bottom and conical top. luckily, the home cook doesnt need a tagine to mimic the flavors. instead, all that is required are some veggies and spices. cook them all up in one pot until they reach a stew-like consistency and serve with rice. this mouthwatering dish will not only be the hit of the party, but sharing the fun facts about the tagine makes some stellar small talk.slow cooker vegan tacos with walnutsif youre going to a party, but you dont have time to cook all day, break out the slow cooker. just throw beans, veggies and spices into the slow-cooker, go about your day and swing by after work to grab the cooked dish and some tortillas to bring along to the fiesta. this recipe calls for unique taco toppings, like walnuts, avocado, cabbage and lime, but feel free to switch it up and use any ingredients you have laying around, like jarred salsa, sour cream, greek yogurt or shredded cheese.more better-for-you recipesbeyond chicken noodle: 8 feel-good soups top chefs swear byhealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutesnutritionist-approved comfort food recipes that are actually good for youhealthier sides and desserts for your holiday tablewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

im a classically trained opera singer. i studied vocal performance at northwestern and started professional life performing with opera companies around the country, singing everything from \"turandot\" to \"the magic flute\" to \"la bohme\". then i turned to musical theater, joining productions of \"west side story\", \"grease\", \"rent\" and a dozen more.all of this prepared me for a career as a sales director in tech.when i tell people this, theyre often surprised. they cant imagine how years as a lyric tenor could translate into this whole new career.these days, more and more people are looking to switch jobs and change it up by pursuing a different field altogether. but for many, the idea is daunting, even frightening. ive found that thats often because they dont see how their experiences relate to the career they want.i was fortunate to have a great template for this, in my mom. she spent 15 years as a dental assistant. then, just like many other people mid-career, she decided to do something different. she went into sales, and was recently named top vendor representative of the year at her electronics company.focus on skillsa big part of the reason my mom succeeded was that she stopped thinking about job titles, and instead focused on the skills she had learned over the years  such as communication, empathy, and the ability to make people feel comfortable. these translated beautifully into sales.i took a look at what skills i had developed as a singer, and quickly saw how they could help propel me into a sales career.for example, since id spent years studying the complexities of operatic and orchestral music, math and analytics came naturally to me. as the american mathematical society explains, counting, rhythm, scales, intervals, patterns, symbols, harmonies, time signatures, overtones, tone, pitch. the notations of composers and sounds made by musicians are connected to mathematics.i had also developed unique communication skills. as a singer, i had to think through every word to figure out the broader message i was trying to get across. i had to be a storyteller, taking listeners on an emotional journey. to sell that story, i had to buy into and believe every note.i also learned discipline, commitment, and how to work closely  harmoniously  with different groups of people so that we could execute our mission together. this meant building relationships, understanding people, and negotiating. i had to adjust my presentation, even down to small nuances, in order to work best with each team.as i isolated all these skills and more, i discovered that i was far more prepared for this new career than i had assumed. in networking opportunities and job interviews, i discussed all this. contacts and hiring managers found me different and memorable.so instead of running away from my experience, i embraced it. some people in my position would have been tempted to say, well yes, i spent years in another career, but ive taken a sales training course and am ready to get my feet wet. i focused instead on showing people how all the steps i had taken in professional life prepared me to take this next one.willingness to learnanother big key to switching careers is the humility to accept what you dont know, you have to demonstrate a willingness to learn. i knew that i had a steep hill to climb. so i focused on explaining how hard i work to pick up new skills and achieve excellence.i explained that my career showed a deep commitment to stakeholders  the organizations that paid me and the people who bought tickets. i felt a responsibility to pull through for them. and i explained that i felt similarly about the stakeholders salespeople must pull through for, including buyers, managers and other parts of the operation in order to achieve customer success (revenue operations, data analytics, marketing and more).in this new career, ive worked my way up the ranks in part by showing stakeholders that i genuinely want to know what their needs are and how i can best serve them.in the end, the goal of professional opera singing and sales is the same one: to get more people buying, liking what you offer, and providing good reviews.translate your experienceno matter what youve done so far in your career, you can follow this same process. search for the parallels between what it takes to do your current job well and what it will take for you to produce great results in the new field youre pursuing.in resumes and cover letters experts recommend that you focus on skills you have that are directly relevant to the job tasks... not the fact that youre transitioning to a new career, according to the bureau of labor statistics. on paper and in person, you should be able to translate how your skills and experience match the position youre applying for.sure, the transition can be bumpy. but no matter how far along you are in your career, you can make a jump like i did, and succeed.more stories about taking chanceswhat no one tells you about leaving a six figure job to be an entrepreneurdefying gravity: a broadway stars unlikely journey from wall street to wickedflywheel ceo: how i learned to win by failingwhy you need to make failure a key part of successwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

youve picked out the perfect tree and invested in some new ornaments. so you pour a few mugs of hot cocoa, turn on the holiday tunes and get ready for a festive night decorating with the family. an hour later youre still wrestling with the tangled mess of lights that were stuffed in the bottom of a storage bin (and cursing under your breath); your kids have lost interest and youre about to lose it altogether.if this nightmare before christmas sounds familiar, we may be able to help. while we may not be able to save you this year (our advice: toss them and hit the dollar store for a few boxes of new lights), we can save you from the stress next year with some super simple ways to pack those lights so that when you open them in 2019 they will be ready to go  no untangling required.here are three options for storing your lights with items you already have laying around the house:clothes hangeranchor one end of the lights on the tiny hook (used for small straps). then begin wrapping the strand all the way around hanger, working your way down one side, and then back past the hook itself and towards the other end, being sure to keep it tight against the body of the hanger. once the strand is entirely wrapped, secure the other end of the light string on the second small hook. you can store the lights by placing the entire hanger inside a storage box, or by hanging it in a closet.wrapping paper tubeinstead of tossing the tube when the wrapping paper is all gone, put it to work! simply thread one end of your christmas lights down the tube (so that it reaches about halfway down the tube), then begin wrapping the strand around the outside of the tube. (we found that standing and rolling makes this a bit easier than sitting. once you have reached the bottom of the tube, be sure to leave about six inches of the strand free, so that you can thread it down the other side of the tube to help hold the lights in place. feel free to place a small piece of tape on the inside to keep it even more secure.piece of cardboardsave some of those shipping boxes that are piling up on your doorstep this month and give them a second life. cut a cardboard flap from the shipping box. starting at one end, cut one-inch slits into the board, working your way down the side. repeat on the other side, being sure to line the slits up across from one another. tuck one end of the light string into the first slit and wrap across the board securing on the other side. continue to wrap the string around the board. with smaller boards, you may need to double up the strand in each slit, which is fine. when the entire string is wrapped, push the plug prongs into the board to secure.holiday survival guidehealthier sides and desserts for your holiday tablehow to get a good nights sleep when youre away from home3 holiday savings hacks thatll save you hundreds5 cocktail hacks for healthier, festive holiday drinkshow a spending to-do-list can help you save big on holiday shoppingwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

michigan couple andy and nicole hill, 36, paid off their mortgage in four years by living on just half their monthly income.when they got married in 2011, the hills vowed to achieve their goal off paying off their $50,000 in consumer debt before purchasing a home.thats when they decided to take the 50/50 path  living on just half their monthly income, says andy hill, founder of marriage, kids and money.we decided if were going to have a great life together and show our kids how to be financially responsible before they come into the world, why dont we try to clobber this debt as soon as possible? says hill.staying on the 50/50 path allowed the couple to pay off their debt in about a year, says hill.by the time they were ready to buy their four-bedroom home in bloomfield, michigan in 2012, they had saved enough money for a 40 percent down payment.that got us to that $195,000 mortgage mark, recalls hill.shortly after, nicole quit her job to stay home with their two children, hill says. but he says theyve continued to live on 50 percent of their income.its made a lot of difference in our familys ability to build wealth and to just protect our family, he says.adopt the zero-based budgetthe 50/50 path requires you to become conscious about how you spend, hill says.the hills embraced the zero-based budget, a simple budget where you allocate every dollar to a specific task.for example, if you are making $5,000 a month, you would allocate each dollar to your expenses, your savings, your debt, and any other obligations, so that your bottom line comes to zero, explains hill.that way you are allocating all of your dollars to a specific function as opposed to them fluttering away and not being assigned to anything, he explains.to reduce spending, the couple cut their grocery purchases by a third, switched from cable to antenna, and negotiated their cell phone bills.figure out a timeline that works for youlook at your income and your expenses. figure out a realistic time frame for when you plan to have your mortgage paid, and commit to it, hill says.if you dont make a big salary, hill says, its still possible to pay off your mortgage quickly  it will just take a bit more time.maybe its 10 years  thats still incredible, he says. maybe its 15 years, he adds, thats a lot quicker than the majority of america right now.get a mortgage that is no more than 25 percent of your take home paya big reason the hills were able to pay off their mortgage quickly is because they purchased their $350,000 home at a price well under what they could afford.hill, a salesman for an event marketing company, says he and his wife didnt want to spend more than 25 percent of their take-home pay on monthly mortgage payments.that allowed us to have some fun and pay for our transportation, and going out and having family fun, and going on vacation without feeling like the mortgage is taking over our lives, says hill.if possible, get a 15-year mortgagethe hills chose a 15-year mortgage over the traditional 30-year. while the monthly payments were higher, they paid more towards the principal and less in interest, hill says, which he estimates saved them around $100,000 in the long term. whats more, the larger payments motivated them to pay off the mortgage as quickly as possible, he adds.i kind of wanted to add that added pressure to allow us to pay back the mortgage faster, says hill.the mortgage is paid, now what?now that the hills have paid off their mortgage, they can focus on their next goal: saving up for their first rental property.we want to buy a rental property, rent it out in metro detroit, and have some monthly recurring passive income that we can use to cover our daily expenses, says hill.hill says paying off his mortgage in four years took many sacrifices, but was worth it in the long run.its for a season, a period of time, maybe tightening things up a little bit, figuring out a way to increase the income, but once you reach that mark, you have the ability to make some choices that really can impact your life, hill says.how to pay off your mortgage quicklytake the 50/50 path: live off half your monthly take-home pay, and save the rest.adopt the zero-based budget: make sure every dollar you make is allocated to either debt payment, savings, expenses, etc. this will force you to become more conscious of how you spend.figure out a timeline that works for you: look at your income and your expenses. then set a goal for when you can realistically pay off your mortgage, and commit to it.get a mortgage that is no more than 25 percent of your take-home pay: this will ensure you have enough money to quickly pay down your debt and still have enough to have fun.if possible, get a 15-year mortgage: your monthly payment will be higher, but youll save big on interest in the long term.more ways to get out of debthow to pay off your loans using the debt avalanche methodhow to get out of debt and build a wealth snowballhow this couple paid off $65,000 in credit card debt and student loans in five yearshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow the 50-20-30 rule can help you get out of debt and save moneywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

books are truly a win-win gift. not only are they effortless to buy and easy to wrap, but giving a book to loved one can be deeply meaningful  and far more personal than a bottle of wine. when a memoir changes your perspective, a historical fiction novel sparks your imagination, or a novel taps into your passions, books can truly change someones life.whether youre shopping for a history buff, hopeless romantic, memoir maniac or a book club devotee, or anyone else on your list, we guarantee one of these 17 titles will be perfect to place under the tree.better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.nonfictionbecoming, by michelle obama, $15, amazonfor anyone who misses the obamasas the first african-american first lady of the united states, michelle obama broke barriers for women and girls around the world. while in the white house, michelle helped families across america become more active, guarded her daughters against the public eye, and stood by as her husband led our nation through difficult times. in addition to all of her accomplishments, michelle managed to remain down-to-earth, likable and honest. here, for the first time, shes sharing the full story of her public and private life, in her own words.in the hurricanes eye, by nathaniel philbrick, $19, amazonfor the person who listens to the hamilton soundtrack non-stopthe final installment of philbricks bestselling trilogy about the american revolution covers the suspenseful final year of the war. he details the remarkable lead-up to the battle of the chesapeake  fought with the aid of a french fleet  which helped break the years-long stalemate and ultimately led america to freedom. philbrick brings this turning point of american history to life with his obvious passion, expertise and superb storytelling skills.bad blood by john carreyrou, $13, amazonfor anyone fascinated by silicon valley startup culturereading like a thriller, this book details the rise and fall of the multibillion-dollar blood-testing startup, theranos, and its infamous founder, elizabeth holmes. celebrated as the female steve jobs, holmes raised funding from big-name investors and eventually led theranos to be valued at $9 billion. the only problem? theranos technology, which would supposedly revolutionize blood testing in the health care industry, simply didnt work.you are a badass every day by jen sincero, $14, amazonfor the #girlboss in your lifethis inspirational book is a must-read for anyone aspiring to greatness  but having some difficulty staying motivated or clear on their vision. in her latest book, author and speaker sincero delivers plentiful wisdom and practical advice, along with her signature sass and down-to-earth sense of humor.educated by tara westover, $17, amazonfor the rebel in your familyhorrifying and enthralling at once, this epic memoir tells the tale of westovers dysfunctional childhood spent in the remote mountains of idaho  where she wasnt allowed to attend school or see doctors due to her familys fanatical beliefs. against all odds, westover ends up attending college and even receives a doctorate from cambridge. her book details her incredible journey along the way, raising questions about religion, family and moral values.churchill: walking with destiny by andrew roberts, $25, amazonfor the british history buffdeemed by the wall street journal as unarguably the best single-volume biography of churchill, this biography gives readers a fuller and more definitive picture of the british war leader than ever before. roberts, the bestselling author of napoleon, gained access to exclusive materials, such as transcripts of war cabinet meetings, diaries, letters and unpublished memoirs, that he pieced together to reveal formerly hidden intricacies and nuances of churchills storied life.infinite wonder: an astronauts photographs from a year in space by scott kelly, $24, amazonfor the aspiring astronaut (adults included!)this gorgeous book contains a collection of photographs taken by the record-breaking astronaut scott kelly, while he lived 250 miles above earth aboard the international space station. using a nikon camera, kelly documents incredible moments on his journey, from life on the space station to stunning natural events such as sunsets, moonsets, the aurora borealis and massive hurricanes.ive been thinking: reflections, prayers, and meditations for a meaningful life, by maria shriver, $14, amazonfor anyone who needs encouragement and inspiration (who doesnt?)no matter where you are in your life  single, married, divorced, successful, down on your luck  this book will help you recharge, renew your spirit and restore your sense of purpose. full of motivation and encouragement, shriver writes like your wise best friend, helping remind you that youre not the only one going through it  whatever it is.ruth bader ginsburg: a life by jane sherron de hart, $24, amazonfor the trailblazerif youve ever seen the rbg biopic, \"snl\" sketches, or if you own a notorious rbg t-shirt, well, you owe it to her to read the comprehensive story of her remarkable life  from her upbringing in brooklyn to her years on the supreme court. the author has intensely researched her subject, talking to rbg herself, as well as interviews with her family, friends and colleagues.fictionwhat have you done by matthew farrell, $16, amazonfor fans of psychological thrillersfarrells debut novel follows forensics specialist liam dwyer, who is investigating a seedy crime scene  only to realize he had an affair with the mutilated murder victim. the bigger problem: he has no recollection of what he was doing the night she was killed. follow along as he digs into the clues to the murder alongside his brother sean, and soon starts to question his own innocence  as well as his brothers.the river widow by ann howard creel, $10, amazonfor fans of historical fictionset during the great depression, this novel follows the saga of adah branch, who accidentally kills her abusive husband, surrendering the body to a raging river  and then gets swept away herself. the book tells the harrowing story of her survival, return, attempts to clear her name and fight to save herself as well as her stepdaughter from her husbands cruel family.until the last star fades by jacquelyn middleton, $15, amazonfor passionate young adultsriley hope, a senior at new york university, looks like she has everything together  a loving mother, great friends and a long-time boyfriend. but behind the scenes, shes dealing with a serious illness. suddenly, a young struggling actor from britain comes into her life. they quickly bond together, but it turns out hes also hiding secrets of his own.nine perfect strangers by liane moriarty, $17, amazonfor the yoga-and-green-juice aficionadoin this colorful new read by the author of big little lies, nine people meet at a remote resort in the australian outback for a 10-day health retreat. quickly, the guests realize that theyre not only in for massages and meditation  something darker is also going on. the nine strangers end up bonding over shared heartbreak and personal struggles, as they work together to get themselves out of the sinister situation theyve found themselves in.the witch elm by tana french by $28, amazonfor mystery loversfrom bestselling crime writer tana french, this novel follows happy-go-lucky toby, whose life is thrown into chaos after a shocking discovery is made at his ancestral home. as family secrets and alliances come to light, toby is forced to fight to preserve his sense of self while questioning who he can truly trust  even himself.times convert by deborah harkness, $20, amazonfor those who believe love (and vampires) can bridge centuriesthe bestselling writers latest novel includes history, romance and plenty of intrigue. we meet marcus macneil, a battlefield surgeon during the american revolution, who opts to become immortal (a.k.a., a vampire). then the novel jumps to modern-day paris, where marcus falls in with phoebe, who also wants to become immortal. in the process, the couple must confront difficult challenges they never expected.a place for us, by fatima farheen mirza by $18, amazonfor someone struggling to fit innamed one of the best books of the year by the washington post, the first novel from mirza  and from sarah jessica parkers new imprint  tells the compelling story of a indian family in the bay area. in a series of flashbacks, we learn about the siblings chaotic childhoods as second-generation kids negotiating their parents expectations as well as the daily drama of being a teenager in america.one day in december by josie silver, $13, amazonfor the hopeless romanticlaurie didnt believe in love at first sight  until she sees a man whom she instantly falls in love with on a snowy december day. unfortunately, right after their eyes meet, her bus pulls away. then ensues a year of searching all over london, trying to find him  until shes introduced to him at a christmas party  when lauries friend introduces him as her new boyfriend, jack.more holiday gift ideasbest healthy cooking gadgets, according to nutritionists and chefsunder $30: 11 thoughtful gifts if youre on a budget15 gadgets and gifts that will take your fitness routine to the next levelthe best workout shoes for women, according to fitness experts18 unique gifts that give back to those in needwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

chances are you plan to spend more on holiday shopping this year than last. if so, youre not alone. the average consumer expects to shell out $1,000 this year, up 4.1 percent from last year, the national retail federation forecasts.and yet, nearly 40 million americans are still paying off 2017s holiday credit card debt, according to an analysis by the personal finance website nerdwallet.the nerdwallet survey of more than 2,000 u.s. adults found that:more people plan to use a credit card to pay for their holiday purchases  73 percent vs. 58 percent last year.those who do pay with a credit card plan to take longer to pay off the charges  3.2 months, on average, as compared to 2.3 months in 2017. that means another months worth of interest charges to pay.kimberly palmer, nerdwallets personal finance expert, cautions families that overspending at the holidays can be really stressful and that stress can last a long time.its easy to let the spirit of the season turn into a spending tsunami that ends up costing more than expected, palmer said. no one wants to disappoint the kids, but the holidays can be really exciting and fun while sticking to a budget.a common budget buster: the kids wish liststhose wish lists can be a real challenge. many parents try to buy everything on the list, even if it means blowing up their holiday shopping budget.the t. rowe price 2018 parents, kids &amp; money survey found that:nearly half (45 percent) of the parents surveyed agreed with the statement: i try to get everything on my kids lists, no matter the cost.those who do try to cross everything off the list are more likely to finance their holiday spending than those who dont (54 percent vs. 44 percent), more likely to have gone into debt to pay for something their kids wanted (48 percent vs. 26 percent) and less likely to have retirement savings (42 percent vs. 56 percent).stuart ritter, a senior financial planner at t. rowe price says the survey results show that some parents are forgetting long-term priorities in order to make their kids happy right now.as parents we make those kinds of trade-offs all the time, between what might make our kids happy in the moment and thinking about the future, ritter told nbc news better. if youre financing your holiday shopping and not saving for retirement, you may not be able to do the other things you want to do for your kids later in life.talk to your kidsfinancial planners and parenting experts contacted by nbc news better agree: just because your kids want it, doesnt mean you have to buy it.bruce mcclary, vice president of marketing at the national foundation for credit counseling cautions that unchecked, emotion-driven spending during the gift-giving season can lead to some serious financial headaches.a childs wish list is not a directive for parents to spend themselves into a sea of red ink, mcclary said. while buying your children everything they want for the holidays might lead to a few happy moments in december, depleting your savings or piling on more debt to purchase those gifts can cause misery that lasts well into the new year.any parent who plans to raid their emergency savings or borrow from a payday lender to purchase gifts for their family, should take a step back from the edge before its too late, mcclary told nbc news better.while retailers encourage kids to have wish lists  it seems santa knows if youre naughty or nice, but not what youd like him to bring you  parents dont need to encourage them to do this.liliana lengua, director of the center for child &amp; family well-being at the university of washington, grew up in a family that didnt make holiday wish lists. it meant parents and relatives needed to put a lot of thought into what the children needed and might like, she said.while retailers encourage kids to have wish lists  it seems santa knows if youre naughty or nice, but not what youd like him to bring you  parents dont need to encourage them to do this.if youre going to have a wish list, you might want to put some boundaries on it to avoid the rampant, lavish and expensive gifts that can end up on those lists, lengua said. our kids grew up thinking santa claus liked to see wish lists that were restrained, that santa preferred to get letters from kids who really only asked for one or two things or three things. and maybe one of the things you ask for could be a gift for someone who might not otherwise get something.experts advise parents to have an age-appropriate conversation with their children. share your family values about gift giving and explain that theres a limit to how much you can spend on presents.parents with a tight holiday budget can do their children and themselves a favor by focusing on whats affordable and having honest conversations about managing money during the holidays, mcclary said. those lessons might be the gift that outlasts all others, by helping children become financially responsible adults.get more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 daysneed to save money fast? try a spending banwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

we all have our shopping horror stories. as someone who strangely enjoys grocery shopping, i spend a lot of time at my local supermarket, and it seems every time i go i witness some pretty bad behavior from fellow shoppers. ive seen people grab from the salad bar  with their bare hands  and gobble up food without paying for it as if it were some kind of public sampling tray. ive seen people yelling at each other to move in the aisles, or not so subtly sighing and rolling their eyes at the slowpoke in front of them who is ogling the shelves and blocking traffic with their cart.i count myself among the slovenly offenders. i tend to be that slowpoke in the aisles, taking her sweet time as she reads the ingredients on the back of every salad dressing, her brimming cart drifting off into the way of others.survey shows were throwing basic courtesy out the windowa new poll by treadmill reviews considers some of the most offensive grocery store habits, drawing attention to just how bad it gets. shoppers are not only taste-testing products (which 80 percent of people deemed inappropriate  and really it should be 100 percent), theyre parking like maniacs (nearly 50 percent of people say theyve nearly been struck by a car in a supermarket lot), storming express lanes with carts that go way over the 10 item limit and leaving their emptied carts anywhere but back where they belong.markets trigger primal needs while also bombarding us with choiceswhat about the grocery store enables such brazen bad manners and entitled behavior? it may in part boil down to the basic, primal relationship between humans and food.if were looking at this from an evolutionary perspective, we are certainly primed for survival and we are also always trying to meet our basic needs (re: maslows hierarchy), says katie krimer, a licensed clinical social worker. one of those main needs is food. even though we live in a country where the options are endless, there might be an instinctual sense of urgency to make sure we have enough food to survive.that primal need gets triggered, which in itself can make us less mindful of our manners, and then youre adding a hectic environment to the mix. supermarkets are generally not calm, soothing places and theyre overflowing with products. so youve got a primal need activated and way too many options to meet that need.having too many options can make us feel overwhelmed and frenzied, continues krimer. we are bombarded from every angle by product information, which is stimulating to say the least. in fact, there can be a paradoxical effect; when we habituate to too many options and because we cant possibly consume all of them, there is a feeling that we never have enough.financial concerns and time constraints can fuel resentmentsome of us get to the grocery store without the worry of being in a hurry, and/or without having to stick to a budget. but this isnt the case for most of us who are living paycheck to paycheck and desperately trying to coordinate work/life balance.dr. sanam hafeez, a licensed clinical psychologist and neuropsychologist, thinks that some of our anger and entitlement in supermarkets may be stemming from a deeper unease, particularly over the rising cost of living.as more and more people see the price of groceries increase while their salaries havent in the last 20 years, they feel uncared for, unsupported, devalued and angry, says dr. hafeez. did you know that today you would need $30 to get the same $20 worth of groceries in 2001? this is fine if salaries kept up, [but] they havent. put these [stressed] people in the supermarket with their kids running around being noisy as they are trying to wrap their head around $5.49 for eggs, and they can easily be triggered. they may also feel entitled to make a mess and sample food out of spite as in, if they have the nerve to charge $4 for a bottle of iced tea, then im not picking up the five bags of pasta that i knocked off the shelf.try these tips to ease the stress and keep bad behavior in checkwhether youre the person carelessly leaving the container of milk in the toiletries aisle, or the person getting worked up by the recklessness of others in supermarkets, there are ways to deal and improve.krimer has compiled a list of tips to help us be better, more considerate shoppers in the fluorescent chaos of the supermarket.1. practice mindfulness before you go to the storebuild some awareness around how being in a store makes you feel and how it makes you behave. if you experience anticipatory anxiety or stress, or know that while youre there you often struggle with dealing with impatience (whether its with your children or with other shoppers), this is your opportunity to bring your anxiety and stress levels down before you go.\"2. practice mindfulness when youre thereif you find yourself getting over-stimulated or agitated, can you pause and take a deep breath?3. remind yourself that this isnt a high stakes situationwe revert back to automated behaviors and were not mindful while were shopping. we tend to go and pick food off the shelves as if its our last meal (and important to validate here that some people have been in situations where they actually have had to be afraid of going hungry). remind yourself that you can come back to the store if you forget something, and nothing will make or break your experience of making a meal.4. do some strategic planninggo to the store when there are likely a lot less people there, or go a little out of your way to go to a store that you know isnt as packed or as overwhelming. have a list with you and commit to not straying from it  then youre less likely to be affected by all the options and taking home a bunch of things that you dont want or need.alas, we cant control the behavior of others, but we can control how we react to them, by taking a pause, considering that they may be having a bad day, and then letting our judgments go.we may also want to take some time in developing camaraderie with store employees. say their names. make eye contact. ask hows it going. tip the person bagging your groceries if thats appropriate  or at least say a meaningful thank you. little acts of connectivity and gratitude can go a long way, and at the very least, theyll probably help you feel less stressed out.shopping tips and tricks at:costcotargettrader joesstarbuckspanera breadwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the holiday season can require herculean restraint if, like me, you happen to have shopaholic tendencies  dangle a great deal in front of me, and i will likely take advantage of it. but with the temptation of so many deals dangling before us during the holiday season, its easier than ever to spend beyond our means. hows a shopaholic to curb the irrepressible urge to overspend while still taking advantage of the good deals out there?for some (approximately 5-6 percent of the u.s. general population, according to one study), compulsive buying is a for-real addiction, with similar consequences that other addicts face, such as financial and relationship troubles. those who have compulsive buying disorder, or cbd, are preoccupied with shopping, experience pre-purchase tension or anxiety, and feel a sense of relief following the purchase.whats more, a study, published by the american journal of drug and alcohol abuse, shows that, like addiction, compulsive buying or spending often accompanies other mental health issues, such as anxiety, eating disorders and depression. compulsive buying is a chronic, repetitive purchasing that becomes a primary response to negative events and feelings, and may include symptoms equivalent to craving and withdrawal, the study reads.if youre a legit compulsive buyer, you arent as motivated by getting stuff on sale as you are by the urge to get stuff. compulsive buyers dont usually check how they can save on items, nor do they enjoy their purchase, explains aviv weinstein, ph.d., an associate professor in the department of behavioral sciences at ariel university in israel, and an author of numerous compulsive shopping and shopping addiction studies. the thrill of buying changes after the purchase, and the motivation is often a relief of depression and anxiety, rather than pleasure. april lane benson, ph.d., psychologist and author of to buy or not to buy: why we over shop and how to stop says.triggers to overspend are everywherefor shopaholics, triggers are easy to come by  and the holiday season just amplifies things, says benson, especially given the 24/7 of our shopping possibilities and the tailored and targeted way that we see ads based on what we bought before.after all, benson says compulsive shopping is often motivated by something called a large self-discrepancy, which she describes as, the distance between who you are and how youd like to be seen. she says compulsive shoppers can also seek material things in order to fill a void, or feel better about themselves for a variety of reasons, including dealing with a loss  even to deny the finality of death.to that end, benson mentions a poignant quote from cat on a hot tin roof by tennessee williams: the human animal is a beast that dies, and if hes got money he buys and buys and buys and i think the reason he buys everything he can buy is in the back of his mind he has hope that one of his purchases will be life everlasting! which it can never behow to stave off temptation to overspendall this said, those of us with shopaholic tendencies should consider approaching their holiday shopping with care. here are some tips:start with a planbenson says shopaholics can stave off temptation by committing a list to paper or phone of:who youre buying forhow much you can comfortably affordhow long you intend to spend searching (because time is also money)an assessment of the risk of over-shopping in a particular storeput quite simply, if a retail environment tempts you more, stick to online shopping. if you cant resist clicking, make your list and physically go to the store.make a budgetdecide in advance how much you can comfortably afford to spend on gifts and on yourself, says benson. record it in your plan and refer to it as you shop.establish a delay mechanismtry using what benson calls a delay mechanism, which is a mental checklist devised to get you thinking about why youre making each purchase.to avoid costly impulse buys, benson recommends taking the time to answer these 6 questions in writing when facing a tempting purchase:why am i here?how do i feel?do i need this?what if i wait?how will i pay for it?where will i put it?so, if the holidays transform you into an overspender, consider shopping with not one but two lists; one of what to buy and one of questions to ask yourself before buying. heres to ticking off all the boxes.holiday survival guidewhat not to do at your holiday office partywhy you shouldnt buy everything on your kids wish listhow to connect and find common ground in any situation3 holiday savings hacks thatll save you hundreds3 ways to go on a holiday social media detoxwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

perhaps you were inspired by stories from the new york city marathon last month, or running a turkey trot has you setting your sights on a loftier goal. or like many, the annual surge in motivation that comes with waving goodbye to one year and entering another may have a longer race or marathon on your resolution list.the majority of those who have successfully checked the marathon box will talk about a feeling of accomplishment like no other  but they dont sugarcoat how challenging the road to completion can be. luckily, those who have been there, done that have accumulated some wisdom that can save you from having to learn the hard way.we asked a handful of long-time marathon pros what they wish they would have known going into their first big race. heres what they had to say.be honest with yourself about your fitness levelthe general rule for marathon training is to begin four to six months in advance. however, while its technically never too soon to start, there is such a thing as starting too late. trying to make it to the marathon finish line when you are undertrained will usually result in a miserable experience, as well as a disappointing end result, warns 49-year-old michelle walker, whos completed over 150 marathons and penned the book, if you give a mom a marathon. there are no shortcuts when it comes to building cardio endurance  the marathon distance should be respected.matthew graham, a 30-something based in phoenix who runs about five marathons every year, agrees. one year i ran the nyc marathon with very little preparation or long runs. i finished, but boy did that hurt, and i was in bed the rest of the day sore and swollen, he says. a year later i ran the marine corps marathon, and while it was the same distance as the nyc marathon, it was a totally different race. i was healthy, strong and didnt get sore or fatigued.before registering for a race, assess your current fitness level to determine if you have enough time to adequately train. even serial marathoners train extensively for each race.get in your car and drive the course ahead of timeevery experienced marathon runner will tell you how vital it is to familiarize yourself with the course. doing so helps you prepare both physically and mentally, says gerald mayes, a 34-year-old personal trainer and runner based in las vegas, nevada. he failed to familiarize himself for his first race and after that, made it a goal to drive or bike the course for subsequent races. knowing the course ahead of time instantly made me more confident [since] i was able to visualize myself doing the course prior to actually doing it, he explains. overall it made the race less nerve racking because there were less unknowns. i was able to connect to the race both mentally and physically prepared. it definitely made the whole experience better.graham adds that while all marathons are the same distance, each is drastically different when you take elevation into account. by knowing where the hills are, you can get strategic by planning for them during training, and by knowing when to walk uphill to prevent leg burnout.have a reason to keep running ready to fall back onin addition to the physical hurdles, you will undoubtedly hit a few mental walls; its common to have negative thoughts, discomfort and even pain while training and racing that can hinder our motivation. walker says that its important to proactively nip these thoughts in the bud.dont beat yourself up over a bad training run. marathon training is a microcosm for life. not all will go as planned, she says. remind yourself that training for a marathon is a long process. your fitness level will progressively improve if you keep at it. on the day of the race when the going gets tough, walker dedicates each of the last six miles to special people in her life, which helps to divert attention away from tired legs.dont buy a fancy new race-day outfitserial runners say to keep your marathon shopping simple. there are many fad shoes  minimalist, individual toes, super padded  but those are just fads created to sell more shoes, says graham. when i first got into running, i wanted to try the minimalist shoes with individual toes. the company claimed it was more natural, but personally i found that i had knee pain any time i ran more than three miles in them. i quickly got rid of those shoes in favor of traditional shoes. bottom line: stick with the basics and dont get swayed by trends when investing in a pair of sneakers.as for clothing, dont feel like you have to spend lots on a trendy outfit here either. to the contrary, marathoners say to dress in cheap layers that you can throw away. before a cold race, i recommend going to a thrift shop and picking up a sweater or something to stay warm, then throw it on the sidewalk when youre a mile in and warmed up, says graham. most races collect the clothes and donate them afterward, so its a cheap and easy option to keep you feeling warm.invest in anti-chaffing suppliesspend the money youve saved on apparel and buy some anti-chaffing supplies. mayes says he learned this the hard way after running the marine corps marathon. after the race my inner thighs, under arms and around my neck were raspberry sorbet red and itched and burned like poison ivy, he says.treat your feet  but dont get a full pedicurelong-distance runners come in all shapes and sizes, but one factor they all have in common  outside of fierce motivation  is their feet. walker is no stranger to the beating your feet take when logging 26 miles; she says her toenails have become disfigured and some have turned black due to bruising. before race day, make sure your toenails are trimmed back, and if you get a pedicure leave the calluses alone since they can provide extra padding and protection. walker also recommends scheduling a foot massage beforehand. a good massage therapist will be able to help alleviate tight muscles in the bottom of the feet. this can help prevent one of the most common runners injuries, plantar fasciitis, she says.do a dress rehearsalwhile it can be tempting to save any new apparel youve invested in for race day, those who have been there say dont. instead, consider your last few long runs a dress rehearsal for the race. walker says, not only should you try out what you are planning to wear during the race, but you should also practice race day nutrition during your long runs. race day nutrition includes what you will eat for breakfast, as well as what you will take in during the race. in that vein, dont deviate from other aspects of your routine on race day. you want to feel comfortable, relaxed and familiar with everything youre wearing, drinking and eating.you may want to skip the provided energy gelthe aforementioned advice also means saying, no, thanks! to the energy gels that are often handed out throughout the race course. although i finished my first marathon, i did not have a pleasant experience. part of my race day misery came from using the energy gel that was offered on the course, rather than the gel i had trained with, says walker. i didnt think it would make much of a difference, but it almost cost me my race. my stomach was that upset. mayes had a similar experience: upon squeezing the [energy] goo into my mouth, i immediately knew that i had made a mistake. i had to run the second half of the race with that horrendous taste in my mouth fighting back the urge to gag, he says.dont get amped up on adrenaline and run too fasta common mistake that newbie marathoners make is taking it too fast right out of the gate. i started [my first] race at a faster pace than what i hoped to average over the entire course. once i hit mile 17, not only was i trying to keep the contents within my stomach from spewing out, i was shuffling to the finish line, says walker. its hard to fight the instinctual urge to run hard when a race starts, but practicing a little self-control can yield positive results.beware: you might just get addictedtheres a reason why marathoners always have another race lined up  the process is downright addictive. each course offers its own appeal and reward.it is impossible to get tired of racing, says graham, who combined his love of running and traveling and set a goal to run a race in each of the 50 states. there is always another race that is challenging in another way, whether farther, higher elevation, more hills, or on a trail. there are also races that are exciting in other ways, whether they have music, tourist sites, are moving parties, or full of costumes. there is always a new challenge you can give yourself with running, and that is a motivating factor for me to always push myself to see how far my body can go.more running advicewhat you need to know before running outdoorsscared to run alone? women runners share their best safety tipsthe right way to train for a marathon (from someone who learned the hard way)how strength training can prevent running injuriesi tried the alterg anti-gravity treadmill to fix my running formwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

did you know that fewer than 5 percent of adults clock in the recommended 30 minutes of physical activity each day? in fact, recent reports project that by the year 2039, half of all adults in the united states will be obese.and this is certainly the time of year when even those of us who normally work out regularly find it hard to squeeze in fitness (and keep the pounds off). over the holidays people say theyre much more likely to behave in more sedentary ways like watching tv, sleeping, eating and drinking to manage their stress. and, according to a poll by the american psychological association, up to 69 percent of people are stressed by the feeling of having a lack of time to get everything done during the holiday season.if youre one of those people who feels their blood pressure rise just looking at your to-do list, you may have already decided to shelve any health goals until the new year. but it is possible to begin making positive health changes  and get a jump-start on those resolutions  without having to scrounge for extra time in your schedule.with so much going on this month, nows not the time to make sweeping changes to your health routine. but by making some small adjustments you can still feel healthier, which helps to encourage you to make other healthy choices along the way. plus youre be working to offset the holiday cheer that is to blame for seasonal weight gain. whether the holidays leave you pressed for time, or youre just looking for ways to kick your workout routine up a notch, weve got you covered with simple health hacks that only take a minute or less.change the grip on your weights to better tone armsaccording to the american council on exercise, people should consider varying their exercise routines not only to prevent boredom, but also to avoid reaching a plateau in performance and results. if youve tried on a holiday dress and noticed your arms are less toned than youd like, a simple change in grip on your dumbbells can tweak the major muscles involved in each move and expedite your results. for example, if youre used to doing a bicep curl with your palms holding onto the weights, with the weights parallel to the floor, you can change it up with this quick hack: turn the dumbbells so that the head of the dumbbell is facing up, so as you curl up, youll be practically hitting your shoulder with the head of the weight (and performing a hammer curl). in other words, by holding onto the dumbbells and turning your wrists towards each other (instead of facing up towards the ceiling) youll change the angle of the bicep curl and engage different muscles.this can be done for side extensions, overhead presses, and more arm exercises. for side extensions, simply turn the palms face up instead of face down while holding the dumbbells, and youll get a completely different arm workout!reverse the order of your workout movesthe scenario is a common one: when you first started your workout routine you saw results that you were happy with. but now, after a few weeks or months, youre not seeing results even though youre performing the same moves. reverse engineering to the rescue! this tactic is another way to avoid plateauing and keep your body guessing without having to develop a whole new training routine.simply do your same workout routine backwards. for example, lets take a mini workout. if youre used to doing squats, bicep curls, then push-ups, reverse the order! start with push-ups, then bicep curls, and then end with squats. by making your body guess which moves are coming next, youre incorporating more interval training and helping to build more muscle.squat it out while youre waiting for your shower to warm upinstead of standing around for 60 seconds waiting for the water to get warm before you step into the shower, do squats! even though standing does burn more calories than sitting, strength training and exercise burns even more. and your opportunities to squeeze in one minute of exercise doesnt stop at the shower waiting for water to boil on the stove, folding laundry or peeling vegetables all provide the perfect opportunity to drop into a squat, do some leg lifts or even a one-minute plank. over the course of the day those bursts of activity can add up to a solid workout.turn your post-workout stretch into a 60-second meditationstress is at an all-time high over the holidays, when busy schedules, end-of-year work deadlines, family dynamics and financial concerns take a toll on our mental health. and meditation  is proven to help reduce those sky-high stress levels  and the health risks that come with them. whether youre a meditation skeptic or feel like you dont have the time, turn your post-workout stretch routine into a meditation by simply focusing on your breathing while stretching. close your eyes during your stretches. breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth, slowing down your heart rate and focusing on how your body feels in this calming state.and an added bonus? research has shown that people who practice mindfulness experienced significant weight loss. so if thats one of your fitness goals, becoming more mindful through meditating during your post-workout stretches may help you attain it faster.skip gym breaks and add in cardio burstsdo you give your body a rest after a set, check your phone or walk over to the water fountain? instead, add in a one-minute burst of cardio between each weightlifting exercise, whether it be jogging in place, high knees or jumping rope. studies show that doing cardio in short, 60-second bursts helps improve cardiovascular fitness and can help in burning fat. plus, youre squeezing cardio into your existing routine, without having to schedule in extra time at the gym.drink a glass of water first thing in the morningthis may just be the easiest change you can make to your daily routine. of course you should be hydrating before and after a workout, but add an extra glass to your morning routine as well. by simply grabbing a glass of water first thing in morning, youll be adding 8-12 ounces to your tally right off the bat and youll be starting your day on a healthy note, which can have a ripple effect, prompting a series of healthy choices to follow. not to mention that research shows that staying hydrated helps with fat and weight loss, and overall health.according to the natural hydration council, \"dehydration can reduce our ability to concentrate, our cognitive and physical performance, and increase feelings of aggression or irritation\" (which is already at an all-time high thanks to traffic jams, mile-long lines at the mall and having to spend extra quality time with your in-laws). and even mild dehydration can affect our mood and energy levels. so if nothing else, staying hydrated can help keep you energized and calm as you power through your holiday to-do list.try these fitness routines10 core exercises that are better for your back (and body) than crunches5 exercises you can perform anywhere, anytimea 10-minute cardio workout you can do at home5 exercises that will strengthen your back and reduce pain8 exercises trainers never do (and what to do instead)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

love em or hate em, carbs are completely misunderstood. carbs (short for carbohydrates) are one of the three macros (short for macronutrients); protein and fat are the remaining two. once eaten, carbohydrates get broken down to sugar, or glucose, in your blood, and from there, the glucose from carbs supplies energy to every cell in your body. notably, your brain demands the most energy, and its said that your neurons basically, your brains messengers  need a steady supply. since carbs remain a mystery to many, here are answers to the most common questions about this food group.which foods contain carbs?its probably no mystery that bagels and pasta are considered carbs, but there are plenty of other foods that fall in the carb camp. they are:grains. this means youll find carbs in both refined grains (such as white bread and white rice) as well as whole grains (including quinoa, whole wheat and oats).vegetables. some, like broccoli and leafy greens, have very few carbs, while starchy veggies, such as white and sweet potatoes and corn (often considered a grain) have more.beans. foods like lentils, chickpeas, black beans, and soybeans supply carbs.fruits. all forms of fruit, whether frozen, fresh, dried or juiced have carbs.dairy. milk, yogurt, and cottage cheese have varying amounts of this macro.sweets. lots of foods  from ice cream to cookies  fall under this category, and anything that has sugar has carbs.other foods provide carbs but in lower amounts. and some of the foods listed here supply other macros. for example, yogurt and beans are both sources of carbs and protein. if youre choosing whole milk yogurt, its also a source of fat.whats the difference between simple and complex carbs?simple carbs are broken down into glucose quickly. perhaps youve experienced a sugar rush  aptly named because the sugar breaks down easily to supply that instant energy. examples of simple carbs include fruit juice, which is stripped of fiber, and all forms of sugar, whether natural, like maple syrup and honey, or more processed table sugar. your body isnt picky here; it will convert them all to sugar quickly. by providing this instant energy, simple carbs cause a faster rise in blood glucose, which prompts your body to produce insulin in response.the term complex carbs refers to the chemical structure of carbs, and this is where things get a little tricky. complex carbs can include foods, like fruits and whole grains, which have fiber as well as other nutrients, and the term can also include chemically complex carbs, like white bread, which has little to no fiber or nutrients that occur naturally.is this the same as good carbs and bad carbs?no. when you hear the term good carbs, it usually refers to whole food carbs that have vitamins, minerals, and protective plant substances. many good carbs also provide fiber. these are key distinctions because these carbs tend to be digested more slowly  whether because they also have protein (in the case of milk and yogurt, for instance), or because they have fiber (think: sweet potatoes or beans). this slower conversion to glucose means your body has a steadier stream of energy, and it doesnt cause as many drastic fluctuations in insulin that can be problematic. taken together, the protective compounds and healthier insulin response puts these types of foods in the good carb camp.typically, foods that have excessive sugar and refined grains are considered bad carbs because they supply few, if any, nutrients (including fiber), and their fast conversion to energy prompts unhealthy fluctuations in insulin levels. over time, this can tax your system and lead to insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.one side note here: refined grains are stripped of their nutrients during processing, but many are enriched (as indicated by the term enriched wheat flour), meaning that certain nutrients have been added back in. that means they supply some b vitamins, including folic acid, as well as iron. because these nutrients are important, the usda allows for making half your grains whole and the other half can come from these processed grains. however, the truth is, youre better off limiting your consumption of refined grains and choosing other whole foods rich in those same nutrients. thats a little off topic for a carb conversation but worth mentioning in the context of good and bad carbs since processed grains do have a few added nutrients.so this means some carbs are healthier than others?yes! i know people get up in arms about calling food bad, but in the interest of science, some foods are plainly better for you than others, and this is certainly true of carbs. take fruit. fruit has fiber, vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants that protect our cells from damage caused by aging, invaders or the environment. in addition to defending your body against diseases, increasing fruit and veggie consumption can also up your happiness-meter. one study looking at more than 12,000 adults over the span of six years found that happiness increased with increasing servings  leveling off at eight servings per day (though youll benefit from less).beans, also rich in carbs, provide protein, fiber, calcium, iron, folate, magnesium, zinc, and other nutrients. and of course, the fiber in good carbs helps feed the trillions of bacteria in your gut, creating a diverse ecosystem that strengthens your immune system and protects you from certain diseases.the science is very clear on this: whole food carbs offer health benefits, whereas refined and processed carbs have a negative impact on your weight and health.how many carbs should you eat in a day?this can vary widely depending on the person, lifestyle factors (say, daily killer workouts compared to a desk job with little activity), and goals. a healthy dietary pattern includes mostly good carbs in right-size portions spread throughout the day. since portions are typically smaller than people think  for instance,  cup of whole wheat pasta or brown rice, or a slice of bread  i find that its pretty common to have portion problems with starches, a scenario that often means your veggies are being displaced. i recommend reversing the ratio instead so your veggie portion is the largest and the starchy carb portion is much smaller. this is an easy way to think of it so you dont have to count, measure, weigh or track anything!is it better to go on a low carb diet for weight loss?i always lean on science to answer this question, and it points to the fact that there is no best way to lose weight. it all comes down to whats sustainable for you. theres a common thread among popular diet programs: eat whole foods over processed ones, curtail your added sugar intake, and eat more veggies. its always a good idea to work with a registered dietitian or look for a plan that has these main pillars and fits within your lifestyle.whats the deal with net carbs?when people are tracking their carb intake, they often subtract the amount of fiber from the total carbs in a given food. thats because fiber, while technically a carb, isnt digestible, so it doesnt cause the rise in blood sugar that other carbs trigger. if youre not tracking your carb intake, and your carbs are mostly whole foods (i.e., good carbs), you dont need to think about net carbs.what does gluten have to do with carbs?gluten is a protein (yes! a protein!) found in wheat, barley and rye (all carbs). going on a low carb diet does not mean youll be excluding gluten and going on a gluten free diet doesnt mean youll be nixing carbs. plenty of healthy carbs, like fruits, starchy veggies, beans, yogurt, and even some grains, like buckwheat (confusing, i know) and quinoa are gluten free. if you dont have celiac disease or gluten sensitivity, theres no need to steer clear.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

these are your cousins. you will probably be spending the night with them.so said the translator after my husband brian and i arrived at the rural slovakian home of his relatives, the cousins wed just learned about. this unexpected visit followed months of chasing a trail to find his grandfathers best friends daughter in the small northwestern town of byt?a. this also being the early 2000s there were letters  the handwritten paper kind in the mail translated thanks to a volunteer we found by running an ad in the slovak spectator  and once on the ground, a university of zilinia professors daughter wed hired to translate and help us find brians great-great-grandmothers grave. wed just discovered that cousins still lived in the area and piled into the rental opel to just show up at their step.slovensko, slovensko, they cried as they clutched brians cheeks and showed him their snapshots of him as a baby, sent years ago by his grandfather whod fled communist czechoslovakia to the united states. an avalanche of food came our way, accompanied by nonstop smiles and eyes shining with tears. they wanted us to spend the night but our translator had to go, and we had reservations awaiting in next-door poland. had we known, or been able to plan better, the visit could have been longer, allowed us to engage more. we left with many kisses and promises to return.this desire to find and connect with our roots is nothing new, but thanks to the availability of dna testing its easier than ever before to actually trace that family tree. and findings arent just passive information to file away. armed with a new understanding of who they are and where they come from, people are flocking to their familys homelands in such droves that this dna travel, so to speak, landed on lonely planets list of top travel trends for 2019.armed with dna results, people are flocking to their ancestral homesits not surprising, said robin hauck, director of business development and partnerships with ef go ahead tours. as long as theres been travel theres been an appetite for visiting where our ancestors are from. whats changed is dna technology has become so much more accessible, its become cheaper and cheaper. what thats meant is the interest level has transitioned from a smaller group of genealogy-obsessed people willing to put in a ton of time and work on their own family tree  [to] now you can buy a 23andme kit in cvs [and] people have information at their fingertips.among this new wave of novice genealogists spurred by their findings to explore their heritage is london-based lonely planet editor christina webb, who was surprised to learn of her eastern european roots. ive since traveled for the first time to a number of destinations such as poland and the czech republic, webb told nbc news better. i was particularly drawn to learning about personal narratives  from the street to museums  steeped in the movement of different peoples and cultures in this part of the world.webb is also inspired to venture beyond her mothers homeland of goa, india, which shes visited often. i feel strongly about being 57.8 percent south asian and it make me want to take a step out of indias smallest state the next time i visit, she said, to explore the vibrancy and diversity from kerala to delhi, and other nearby nations such as sri lanka and nepal.travel companies are jumping on the trendwhile many intrepid travelers will forge ahead on their own, an industry is springing up around tailoring guided dna trips. go ahead tours hauck worked with ancestry.com to to develop an evolving line of small group tours to europe that come complete with dna testing and an on-board genealogist.[ancestry] had heard more and more from customers that they wanted to bring their families and go and walk where their ancestors walked and really bring the whole thing to life, hauck said. its just so important for people to fill in in actual living color where theyre from and how their ancestors lived. it makes people feel more complete.the partnership grew out of a need to make heritage travel more widely available. we found ancestry had professional genealogists whod been taking families abroad for years, hauck said, but on super-customized trips that cost tens of thousands or a hundred thousand or more for a family to go to these specific places to do an extended journey. they were saying, most people dont have 60-70 thousand to fly their families first class with genealogist at their side, so how can we work with you?the tour company and ancestry teamed up to offer guided, family heritage-themed trips to the most popular destinations for dna travelers  italy, ireland, germany and scotland.how dna tours workso what exactly is a dna tour? the experience starts before the trip with a dna kit. once travelers get their results, you get five hours personalized time with a professional genealogist, hauck said, who will compile research for each traveler and often offer reading suggestions ahead of the trip. you also have the genealogist on the tour helping you take that research and use it.a fringe benefit of traveling with a group, she added, is youre also on tour with people super interested in the same place. her pro tip? make an effort to get to know the people on your tour because theres a lot of knowledge in that group. tour participants have even found relatives on the tour itself, she said, and end up traveling on together.while on tour exploring significant sites in the region theres free time to peel off to visit a specific, street, school, cemetery or homestead, hauck said.but of course it is still a tour with up to 26 people traveling together on a bus. and that requires a certain mindset, hauck said. while there are advantages like having logistics handled and time in the country maximized (not to mention not being abandoned at the worst possible moment by the translator, as happened to us!), you have to have your expectation set correctly, she said. you have to be going for the right reasons  the value and the education. and you have to be ok with when they say, the bus is leaving at 8:45 you have to be there. get on board with moving as a group. wedge yourself in so you can hear.i have to think some of the magic found in spontaneous, independent travels mishaps would be missing from such a choreographed excursion. but then again, theres real heartbreak in traveling so far only to miss out on or limit a family connection.as for our slovakian cousins, we kept our promise to return, and indeed went back four years later. this time we planned ahead and traveled with prague-based journalist petr ko?  a miracle craigslist connection whod generously agreed to not only translate but drive. and this time we were able to have a true family visit, complete with polishing off a bottle of slivovitz made of their own fruit in their communitys shared distillery.halfway through the bottle one of the cousins paused for a question. when you travel, he asked us through ko?, is it to discover how people are different, or how they are the same? as we looked around at our long-lost family, their very bones an echo of my husbands, the answer was clear.more travel tipssave $520 (or more) on your next flight with these 4 airfare hackshow to pack a carry-on (so you dont need to check a bag)the top safety mistakes we make when we fly, according to flight attendantshow beat back flight anxietyhow to find the best travel rewards credit card for youwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

picture this: you get an email notification that your credit card bill is almost due. you acknowledge the reminder and swiftly move it to trash. a couple of days later, you get another saying that you need to make a payment tomorrow. any reasonable person would simply pay it off then and there, or set a reminder for the next morning so they know to take care of it. but not you. you let the bill sit there, unpaid, until its a month past due and youre hit with added interest.well, im not proud to admit ive been in that exact predicament before, which resulted in a lowered credit score, a significant factor in ones financial health  and all because of my own laziness.when it comes to personal finances, your credit score carries a lot of weight. some people believe debt in general and credit cards in particular are evil and to be avoided at all cost, explains thomas murphy, texas-based certified financial planner and ceo of murphy &amp; sylvest. having no credit history, however, has the same adverse effect as bad credit. getting an apartment, insurance and, in some cases, a job are all more difficult without a good credit score.ultimately, according to equifax, with a credit rating scale of 300 to 850, you should be shooting for a score of 700 and higher. the closer it is to 850, the better. in order to get and maintain a great score, youll need to have great habits in place  which sounds easier said than done if youre a natural slacker.but creating a stellar track record with creditors doesnt have to be laborious. and if you dont have any credit history whatsoever, there are a number of options to build one from scratch. below are a few simple tactics you can use to shape up your standing with credit reporting bureaus and future lenders.1. get a secured credit cardone of the most common ways to start establishing credit is to apply for a secured credit card. instead of relying on a solid credit history, these cards allow you to put up a security deposit as collateral. the amount you put down will also act as your credit limit, and youll receive the deposit back when you close the account. keep in mind that while many card issuers are more than willing to approve secured credit cards for people with no credit, your interest rate will likely be on the higher end and your credit line may be low.2. become an authorized user on a credit cardif the thought of getting your own credit card seems a bit intimidating, ask a parent or a trusted friend or family member with healthy financial habits if you can become an authorized user on theirs. if they have a history of consistently paying their bills on time, it may have a positive impact on your credit, even if you dont personally use the card.3. always pay your bills on timethe easiest way to raise your credit is to pay your bills in a timely manner, preferably earlier than their due dates. if youre a forgetful person, set reminders and mark due dates on a calendar or physical planner (or both) for when bills are due so you dont forget about them. you can even try using an accountability buddy to keep you on track for each monthly payment.4. set up monthly auto paymentsif you can afford to do so, setting up auto payments for all of your major bills is a smart way to ensure youre paying them on time every single month. when you put your payments on autopilot, you dont have to worry about manually taking care of them or risk forgetting about a statement. you can generally sign up for automatic bill pay through your bank, or even on your individual utility accounts.5. use your credit cards sparinglyone popular but important tip for getting a good credit score is to use as little of your credit line as possible  i.e. keep your credit utilization rate low. a good rule of thumb is to never use more than 30% of the credit you have available to you at any given time. when you use your credit cards sparingly, you can make sure you can always afford to pay back what you owe. this can positively impact your credit score, as it signals to lenders that youre more likely to pay back off your balance.6. pay off your balances in fullcontrary to what many believe, you absolutely should not consistently carry over a credit card balance from month to month in order to build credit. its actually advisable to pay off your bills completely before the end of each billing cycle so you dont accrue interest and pay unnecessary money to your creditors.at the end of the day, its far easier to damage your credit than it is to salvage it. thats just one of the harsh realities of personal finance, and one you should keep in mind whenever you feel tempted to swipe your credit card for a frivolous purchase out of your budget.having good credit, though, doesnt really require much work on your part. figure out how to make sure you pay your bills on time and utilize the above tips, and youll be on your way to credit score success  no matter how lazy you are.*correction* (dec. 3, 2018, 10:23 pm et): an earlier version of this article misstated the length of the time before a missed payment triggers a lower credit score. it is a month, not a week. in addition, a suggestion to round up credit card payments to the nearest dollar was removed; carrying a small positive balance isnt an effective method to improve a credit score.get more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 daysneed to save money fast? try a spending banwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

name: hoang nguyenage: 38residence: st. paul, mnjob: ophthalmic medical technologisthome life: single, though she thinks its time for her boyfriend of four years to pop the questionpeak weight: 180 poundscurrent weight: 140 poundsheight: 5 feet 6 incheshoang nguyens weight gain followed a path that might be familiar to a lot of people. as a child and teenager, she kept her weight at healthy levels. after graduating from college and getting a 9-to-5 desk job, though, thats when i ballooned, she says.exercise had been nudged off her calendar  she had been active in her younger days but now she was tired after work. in her free time, she went out with friends instead of working out. between her workplace cafeteria and meals in restaurants, she was tempted to turn to unhealthy foods.an unexpected connection makes the differencebut in 2013 she was inspired to make a change. i was working at the mall of america and i ran into a friend of a friend. she was a minnesota vikings cheerleader, and talking to her got me thinking about my dance days, nguyen says. after that i thought i should get back into dance.she had danced in musical theater as a child and studied jazz, ballet, and tap during college, but she hadnt danced in almost 10 years. she joined a program where she could take unlimited classes to work on her technique and started taking four or five classes a week.the dance studio was so close to work, i just walked two and a half blocks to get there, she says.dancing reminded her of other activities she had enjoyed when she was younger. next up? hockey. nguyen had played hockey casually as a kid and enjoyed it, so she reached out to a womens hockey association and got a spot on a recreational team. minnesota is such a hockey state  its so big here  and i wanted to do something fun, she says.she also started running, in part to spend time with her sister, who was a busy mom with four young children. nguyens sister was in a running club called moms on the run. even though nguyen doesnt have children, she started running so they could spend sisterhood nights together where they could hang out and stay healthy. when i ran my first 5k nonstop, that was great, she says.while she enjoyed playing hockey and running, she discovered that dance was where she wanted to focus her energy. most recently she danced at the performing arts festival minnesota fringe. and she joins flash mob americas performances in her area. i do flash mobs whenever i can, she says.she says she dropped about 25 pounds in the first three to four months after she started dancing, and the rest of the weight came off more slowly. now i am back to my high school weight, she says.exercise leads to better food choicesparticipating in all of these activities motivated nguyen to start eating healthier. she scaled back on eating out and moved her diet toward smaller portions with more greens and veggies.she also trimmed her dinnertime visits to her mom. my mom cooks a lot of stir fry and fatty asian food, she says. i love her, but every time i would go over, she would keep on feeding me.whats behind her weight loss success?nguyen says camaraderie helped her stay committed to exercising. she ran with her sister, and she likes dancing with other people and the instructors in the classes.and shes quick to point out that while throwing herself into exercising worked for her, its not for everybody. everyone is different, she says. i took on all of these activities, but not everyone is able to do that. if you need to go slow, take it step by step.more weight-loss success storieshow a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

were trying a new video advice series around everyday dilemmas: friendship, dating, relationships and more. were calling it crowdsourced. but instead of your typical advice column, we want you to ask the questions and answer them. hear directly from people around the country who are going through the same thing you are.so, heres a question for you:send your advice (your best facial expressions welcome!) as a video message to crowdsourced@nbcuni.com or share your thoughts as a written message in the form below.

pass the spinach  said no one ever at a holiday dinner.the last thing anyone wants to do at a celebratory meal is worry about getting their daily serving of vegetables. but veggies are a versatile and often overlooked base to a variety of scrumptious side dishes. think about it: youve already got mashed potatoes and green beans on the table, why not shake things up a bit with some unique veggie-forward sides?plus, for any vegetarian or vegan family or friends, these tasty sides can be combined to make one tasty meal (so you dont have to worry about making another main course). even the carnivores may have more produce on their plate than anything else with these mouth-watering recipes.who knows, your guests may even be asking you to pass the veggies this year!cumin roasted squash with lemon tahini saucethis medley of cumin roasted delicata, acorn and butternut squash topped with a lemon tahini dressing adds some middle eastern flair to your holiday table. as if those flavor combinations arent enough to make your stomach rumble, the whole-wheat couscous and pomegranate arils give this side a nice crunchy texture.stuffed acorn squashkeeping with the squash theme  it is in season after all  this stuffed acorn squash could stand alone as a delectable vegetarian main. its bursting with the flavors of fresh herbs, like thyme and rosemary, which contrasts nicely with the sweet squash and cranberries. the farro provides a nutty taste, and the parmesan cheese adds a savory saltiness, all of which come together for a complex and delicious dish.pumpkin cauliflower rice risottodont be fooled by the look and taste of this creamy risotto (although your guests will be)  its basically just fruits and veggies. the velvety texture comes from a mixture of pumpkin, vegetable stock and parmesan cheese, while the cauliflower serves as the rice. put this out on your holiday table and see if anyone notices that its not real rice.healthier sweet potato casserolebelieve it or not, sweet potato casserole doesnt always have marshmallows on top. as a matter of fact, it tastes better when its free from the gooey camp fire treat. this healthier version of the traditional holiday casserole makes the sweet tubers the star  what a concept! it mixes mashed sweet potatoes with a little bit of orange juice, coconut oil and a dash of brown sugar. in other words, it lets the already sweet root veggie shine.roasted cranberry, wild rice &amp; kale saladthe word \"salad\" may conjure up thoughts of boring lettuce topped with a sad dressing, but this version will make you rethink that idea. start by roasting cranberries and whipping up a batch of wild rice. throw the ingredients together with kale and a maple-apple dressing, and youve got the most exciting fall salad at your holiday shindig.green beans with caramelized onions and almondswhen did green beans become synonymous with creamy mushroom soup and canned fried onions? its time to break out of the green bean casserole mold with this vegan dish. not only do the caramelized onions deliver big flavor without big calories, the roasted nuts add a nice texture to the simple dish.crispy bourbon brown sugar brussels sprouts with baconi would wager a bet that youll be hard pressed to find someone who doesnt like bourbon, brown sugar and bacon. pair those three ingredients with crispy brussels sprouts, and youve got the ultimate crowd pleaser. lets just call this the gateway dish for the non-veggie lovers. after a few bites of this, you may find them asking you to pass the salad.roasted beets with feta saladadd a bit of royal purple to your holiday table with this seven-ingredient roasted beet salad. this can be eaten hot or cold, so feel free to make this dish ahead of time to cut down on the time you spend in the kitchen.charred shishito peppersthink outside the side dish box and give shishito peppers a try. these small green peppers are a sweet and fun finger food, and they require practically no time or fancy ingredients to make them taste good. plus, they come with an inherently fun game  every 1 in 10 peppers is spicy, so its like playing pepper roulette!carrot ginger soupalthough you may not typically start your holiday dinner with a soup course, this gorgeous carrot ginger version may make it a new tradition. soup is so easy to make ahead of time, and this creamy version includes split green peas, which adds a protein and fiber punch.more better-for-you recipeswhat top chefs cook for dinner when theyre pressed for timehealthier sides and desserts for your holiday tablehealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for youbeyond chicken noodle: 8 feel-good soups top chefs swear bywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its beginning to look a lot like christmas. colorful lights line rooftops and windows. bristly wreaths hang on front doors, and you may spot a glow up santa and his fleet of perfectly arched reindeer on your neighbors lawn.you might be thinking, now? already? its not even december!theres ample debate about how soon is too soon to put up this seasonal dcor. a poll by home depot found that the best date to begin sprucing your home with the holiday spirit is november 24. one study suggests that people who deck the halls earlier are doing a type of community service by communicating friendliness and cohesiveness with neighbors.regardless of timing though, holiday decorations dont always have such a happy-making effect on us. as so many cynical memes (like this one) reflect, these neighborly gestures displaying festivity and joy can trigger judgmental reactions from those of us in a more bah-humbug frame of mind.im one of those grinch-types who will easily scoff at my neighbors extravagant holiday decorations. when i was a child, my mother was the same way, only more heated. youd think our ambitious neighbors were setting their trees on fire rather than dressing them in tinsel and angels.tacky, wasteful, show off; these were the words my mom would yell out in the car as we drove by these very merry houses. fortunately the windows were rolled up.the holidays pile on pressure to show (and spend on) joy  and its stressfulmy mothers judgments may have been extreme, but mental health experts dont find negative reactions to something so trivial and well meaning as yuletide lawn dcor to be all that uncommon.i think the holidays for many people bring up so much stress about how we show our joy, our celebration, our levels of happiness, says dr. neil puri, a psychiatrist at the menninger clinic. that may be through our outward displays of these emotions and how invested we are in this time. we get caught up in what gifts we have to give, in how to show our appreciation for others in the right way, and then we have so much to get done. its stressful.seeing that our neighbors who have gone all out for the holidays not only reminds us of societal expectations to be dishing out cash and effort on this most wonderful time of the year, it also signals to us just how little time left we have to get everything done.i havent done anything yet and i just noticed myself looking at my neighbors [decorated] homes and thought, are you kidding me? kelley kitley, a licensed clinical social worker and psychotherapist, tells nbc news better. i became anxious. my first thought was i am so behind.let your first thought be what it is, then change the narrativekitley could have let herself spiral into a thought storm of anxiety and/or competitiveness, but she took a piece of her own clinical advice. she changed the narrative of her thinking.i tell my clients many [of whom] are feeling the stress of the holidays) that its not about restricting that initial thought, its about the second thought, which should be stop. from there you can take a non-judgmental approach.in kitleys case, building a non-judgmental narrative meant resisting the urge to criticize herself for not doing more decorating sooner, nor indulging a sense of failure to keep up with the joneses. she said stop to the thought, hung a wreath on the door and resolved to get the rest done next weekend.choose your words with gentleness and self-carekitley also refrained from using negative, punishing words in her thoughts, a tip she heartedly recommends, especially if youre going through a tough time.heres a word you can use instead of bad, ugly, behind or whatever other negative adjective youre using against yourself or silently against your neighbors: different. this choice of a neutral but truthful word is helpful if youre feeling like for whatever reason, you just cant get in the spirit this year when in the past youve met holiday goals with relish, including decking your house out.be gentle and just say this year was different, and be okay with that rather than judging it.be gentle and just say this year was different, and be okay with that rather than judging it, says kitley. so much comes down to the words we use. i [specialize in] cognitive behavioral therapy and work with my clients on changing way we speak to ourselves, eliminating black and white thinking and making more room to have some forgiving language.we may be feeling sad and unmotivated to celebrate. honor that.we may also be judging our neighbors for their showy displays of holiday glee because we arent feeling up to the festivity of it all. jolly spectacles, so literally close to home, though meant to show a welcome gesture, can make us feel more alone.we have to keep in mind is that the holiday season doesnt just come up with positive memories and positive emotions for everyone, says dr. puri. perhaps we are dealing with grief or another loss, or perhaps were struggling to make ends meet. if we find were having a negative reaction, thats a clue that perhaps we need to process something further. are you upset by your neighbors decorations because youre struggling? because you feel envy? because youre grieving? acknowledge what it is, and note that this time of year can come with difficulty, but maybe you dont have to get mad at the neighbor.as for my own tendency to get mad at the neighbor, i think it has to do with the sadness i was feeling during those car rides with my mom, when she (likely also feeling really awful) was angrily judging the neighbors for their displays. those drives happened within a few years of my twin brother dying (he died a few days before christmas), and not long after my parents separated. we went from living in a big house where we all celebrated the holidays (garishly, in fact), to just the two of us in a two-bedroom apartment. our family had been split in half and there was no enthusiasm or money to put on a show.probably, when i see all these decorated homes, im reliving the sadness i felt back then too. and rather than honoring that sadness, i roll my eyes at neighbors display.resentment is deceptively easier to carry than pain, but it doesnt work well if we actually want to feel okay. now, i know better, and can work on the sadness, rather than the reaction stemming from it. and i wonder: is this the case for everyone who is repelled by their neighbors gaudy decorations? are we all just acting out on deeper emotions and childhood trauma?nope.both kitley and purin note that sometimes, we just dont like our neighbors aesthetic taste.if thats the case, then you can still use this advice: acknowledge the thought, see the emotion and then let it go. in a few weeks, everything will go back to normal and youll have a whole 11 months (if youre lucky) with not a bedazzled blitzen or dasher in sight.more from betterthis daily gratitude routine can train your brain to be happierhow to relax and tap into a zen feeling (almost instantly)how to take a mental health daya daily ritual that will help you de-stress (in just 5 minutes)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

just how much is that diploma going to cost you, again? brace yourself  for the 2018-19 school year, private schools tuition came in around $35,000 per year, and public schools charged between $10,000 and $21,000 depending on in-state or out-of-state classifications. that means that for four years of college, families will spend somewhere between $40,000 and $142,000  not including room, board, books or basically anything else.if you havent saved anywhere near that much, you arent alone. by the time their kids matriculate, most parents will have set aside just 28 percent of what they wanted to save, according to fidelity investments 2018 college savings indicator. but interestingly  and perhaps refreshingly  they dont seem too worried about it. instead of compromising their retirement savings or going to other great lengths to afford tuition, parents are now asking their children to take on a greater share of responsibility, and expect their kids to have set aside an average of $15,385 by high school graduation, up from $12,431 in 2016. today, just 49 percent of parents feel tuition is solely their responsibility, down from 56 percent in 2016, according to the fidelity study. in fact, many moms and dads seem pretty darn chilled out about paying for college, despite costs being higher than ever. according t. rowe prices tenth annual parents, kids &amp; money survey, just 27 percent of parents report losing sleep over college savings costs this year, compared with 41 percent in 2017. so, whats changed?a new strategytodays parents are less willing to take on their childrens college debt, according to the t. rowe price survey. a minority of parents  just 14 percent  said they were willing to take on more than $75,000 in debt for their kids college. in comparison, 26 percent of parents were willing in 2017. interestingly, as the number of parents willing to take on student debt went down, the number of parents utilizing 529 college savings accounts went way up  today, 44 percent of parents are saving for college in a 529 account, compared to just 27 percent in 2017, making 529 plans the most popular college savings vehicle on the market.more parents are realizing that while there are countless options out there for paying for college, there is no such thing as a loan that will support you through your retirement, says jocelyn wright, consultant at the american college of financial services. and for many families, thats what this debate comes down to: is your childs education the priority over your nest egg? it shouldnt be.shifting stressunfortunately, parents may be the only ones enjoying a stress-free mindset around student debt  students seem to have absorbed their folks financial worries. according to cheggs 2018 state of the student report, a majority of students  62 percent  all have the same main life stressor in common: their finances. additionally, the report found that the greatest source of social pressure for college students is to spend more money than they can afford and nearly one-in-five struggle to afford housing.unfortunately, students who stress about finances become adults who stress about finances, wright says. so many students dont ever get financial education. they go to school not understanding their options around financial aid, taking out loans, what their debt will be, or how the repayments may impact them when they graduate and start working. all these unknowns can be a great source of stress, which is why education is so important.getting on the same pageconversations about college costs need to start early  in 2017, students had enough income and savings to cover 11 percent of their college costs, or around $2,600, according to sallie mae. additionally, nearly half of all students received some kind of scholarship in 2017. but both of those efforts require a head start, on either earning money or on finding and filling out scholarship applications. parents are the ones who need to initiate those conversations, wright says. paying for college is a team effort, and everyone has to be on the same page.a few ways to get there include:set clear expectations about how much youll contribute toward college and how much you expect your child to pay. sit down with your kids and break down the costs of college together, including tuition, housing and books, says rebecca safier of student loan hero. when it comes to choosing a college, encourage your child to consider cost of attendance along with other factors, such as location, size, and academic programs. the u.s. department of education offers a useful net price calculator that families can use to estimate the net cost at different colleges.discuss the pros and cons of borrowing student loans, and help your child understand what paying back a loan would involve, safier says. use a student loan calculator so your child can see and understand exactly how much their monthly payments would be on any debt they borrowed.encourage your child to work part-time if possible. a job can be an excellent resume builder as well as a stream of income. if the sticker price of a full semester is intimidating, help your child identify a specific portion that theyre expected to cover  a meal plan, books, or housing may be a good place to start.discuss some of the financial pressures your child may encounter in college. this includes the pressure to overspend on social events, safier says.managing money isnt just a matter of numbers; it can be a very emotional and psychological issue, too. opening up space for your child to share their concerns and feelings around money could help them understand their money mindset and prepare for the challenges they could face in the years to come.encourage a cheaper start in a community college. suggest that your child start college with a semester or two of community college under their belts, wright suggests. get creative. that four-year model may need to be turned on its side.recommend that your child take a financial planning course. you dont have to major in it, but do take a course in it so you can be armed with the tools you need so you dont have to be stressed about money, wright says.more from better6 months to send-off: how to emotionally prepare your child for collegehow to take the stress out of saving for retirementhow to grow your savings fasterwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.kathryn tuggle contributed to this report. 

what do you get for the person on your list whos itching to break out on her own? with the right tools and tips from pros who launched successful side hustles of their own, she might be surprised at how quickly one can start earning money  and having fun  outside a regular 9 to 5.even if you dont want to leave your job, a side hustle is an awesome way to make extra money, use your talent in the world, and hedge against an uncertain job market, says susie moore, author of \"what if it doesnt work out?\", who started her side hustle as a life coach and writer while working as a sales director at a fortune 500 company. plus, pursuing what you love outside of work can help you feel more fulfilled and motivated at your day job, moore says.below, moore and two other entrepreneurs who side hustled their way to success share the must-have books that helped them build their side gigs into fully-fledged businesses.whether youre looking for a gift for a marketing executive who wants to do stand-up comedy shows on weekends, an accountant with a calling to be a spiritual life coach, or a lawyer working on a historical fiction novel, these reads will equip your favorite entrepreneur with the wisdom and inspiration needed to make that dream a reality.better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.big magic: creative living beyond fear, by elizabeth gilbert, $13, amazonthis is the book that gave me permission to be creative and to honor my day job while working on my side hustle, says krista williams, who had a marketing job by day while she created a lifestyle blog and podcast by night. shes now fully self-employed as a blogger and host of the almost 30 podcast. this book is a beautiful discussion of some of the less glamorous realities of living a creative life  like the struggle to produce quality work and fears of inadequacy or comparison. i love how gilbert weaves in her own experience, which creates an inspiring and relatable narrative.the seven spiritual laws of success, by deepak chopra, $11, amazonauthor and speaker chopra shares an alternative perspective on achieving success, writing about the unseen forces that affect the flow of money in our lives. it might sound a little woo-woo, but as moore explains, success is all about the flow of give and take. this book shows you how to manage the flow of abundance that wants to reach you.rocket fuel: the one essential combination that will get you more of what you want from your business, by gino wickman and mark c. winters, $15, amazonready to get back to basics? this practical guide will help turn your ideas into a business. if you need help working on your business instead of in your business, this book is a must, says julie solomon, a publicist turned brand consultant and host of the influencer podcast. this book really helped me figure out the overall structure of my team, and most importantly, how i could make sure to stay in the visionary role of my business.the artists way, by julia cameron, $12, amazonif you are interested in any creative business path, the artists way really is a rite of passage, solomon says. the morning pages practice is a life changer. first published 25 years ago, this bestselling book takes readers through a 12-week program that helps them discover their creativity, and overcome limiting beliefs and fears in the process.tools of titans by tim ferriss, $20, amazonif youre crunched for time, you can flip open this book every so often to get inspired by the habits and routines of billionaires, icons, and world-class performers. as a huge fan of the tim ferriss show podcast, this book is great to pick up every so often and open to any page to get a dose of inspiration, williams says. i try to focus on two or three at a time and really apply them or try them in my life so its not overwhelming.money: master the game, by tony robbins, $16, amazonanother pick from moore, this book shares a seven-step plan for reaching financial freedom, based on research and interviews with prominent investors such as john bogle, warren buffett, and paul tudor jones. its so easy to make money mistakes and not know it, moore says. in this book, tony sets you up to be truly financially free.lucky bitch: a guide for exceptional women to create outrageous success, by denise duffield-thomas, $11, amazonyou cant make money with a blocked, stuck, \"this is so hard\" type of attitude, moore says. denise gets you unstuck and fast  youll be ready to receive more in no time! duffield-thomas is a self-made millionaire who went from being broke and miserable at her office job to traveling the world and earning six figures, so she clearly knows a thing or two about getting lucky.earth is hiring by peta kelly, $18, amazonconsider this a guidebook for conscious entrepreneurs. it speaks to your soul, williams says. peta is a powerhouse, and in this book she helps us to wake up and take care of the earth, ourselves, and others. with a sense of humor, kelly reminds readers not to take everything so seriously  and living joyfully is part of the point.find better gifts for everyone on your list:18 unique gifts that give back to those in needbig-hearted gifts under $30gift and gadgets for the fitness obsessedwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when it comes to easy-access workouts, walking and running definitely top the list. youll burn calories and improve your heart health  without the need for any fancy equipment, expensive gym memberships, or any sort of 30-day plan. all you need is your own body and a pair of shoes.but of course, theres a catch. that pair of shoes is super important for making the most out of your walk, run, or hike. without a proper pair, youll risk injury, discomfort, and pain; while the right ones can make you feel like youre flying.unfortunately, it can be a goldilocks-esque challenge to find just the right pair. take it from katie dunlop, certified trainer and creator of love sweat fitness, whos tried hundreds of different shoes. some are super cute, but dont offer any real support to your poor feet ,while others are completely functional, but not exactly stylish, she says.to help you narrow down your decision, we asked avid runners and fitness professionals to tell us the shoes they swear by. read on for 14 top picks.for runningnike pegasus 35, starting at $70, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/nike-pegasus-running-thunder-crimson-phantom/dp/b075zyshfbcameron yuen, certified strength and conditioning specialist and senior physical therapist at bespoke treatments, picks this pair as his go-to running shoe. when you run, you want to minimize the amount of time your foot spends on the ground  otherwise, the contact time slows you down and puts more stress on the soft tissues, he explains. since the pegasus is a bit more responsive, you can help propel yourself a bit quicker off the ground.asics dynaflyte 3.0, $140, asicshttps://www.asics.com/us/en-us/dynaflyte-3-lite-show/p/0020002040.001if youre racking up the miles for a half-marathon or other endurance event, check these out.i own about 80 pairs of sneakers, and choose this one almost every day for runs between three and 13 miles, says emily abbate, a running coach and writer who recently ran the new york marathon. at 7.58 ounces, its lightweight but still packs enough cushionusing asics flytefoam technologyfor me to rack up the mileage without foot pain.new balance 1400v6, $90, new balancehttps://www.newbalance.com/pd/1400v6/w1400-v6.html#color=white_with_pigment_and_vivid%20coralhave a need for speed? this shoe makes me feel faster than fast, abbate says. super light at only 6 ounces, the 1400v6 has the responsiveness i crave when im trying to pick up the pace. plus, a locked-in feel courtesy of a structured upper with support cage for a secure mid foot.saucony zealot iso 3, $70 (originally $130), dswhttps://www.dsw.com/en/us/product/saucony-zealot-iso-3-performance-running-shoe---womens/433426this sneaker is not only extremely comfortable and affordable, but they also look great, says wes meserve, the run coordinator at life time athletic burlington. i need a shoe that is neutral with cushion, a small drop, looks great, and is affordable. this shoe has all of that. he also points to sauconys isofit technology, which basically morphs to your foot for a sock-like feel.saucony womens ride iso running shoe, $120, amazon https://www.amazon.com/saucony-womens-running-shoes-purple/dp/b078pp1scl/dunlops favorite is another saucony style. with great ankle support and plenty of cushioning, this is a solid pair for long distance runs, she says. they feel like youre running on a cloud, but theyre still very lightweight. plus, the isofit and new formfit technologies helps the shoe adapt its shape based on your running style.brooks ghost 11, $120, zapposhttps://www.zappos.com/p/brooks-ghost-11-grey-blue-silver/product/9046315/color/44763this shoe has been around forever  and for good reason, according to meserve. the ghost is great for new runners as well as long runs, he says. in this latest edition, brooks has used a refreshed foam midsole which heel-strikers love, since the transition from heel to toe is quicker with solid protection. another great feature of this shoe is the traction  i have never slipped once in the rain or snow! meserve adds.for walkingnike cortez trainers, starting at $48, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/nike-womens-classic-cortez-leather/dp/b01dok5m2s/nike cortez have always been my favorite walking around shoe  its casual, but still stylish, mesere says. they have been around forever, and i have been wearing them ever since i was about 15 years old. theyre not only durable, affordable, and last forever, but they come in many different color ways, so you can choose whatever colors suit your style.new balance womens 365v1 walking shoe, $39-$133, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/new-balance-womens-wa365v1-walking/dp/with hundreds of five-star reviews on amazon, these breathable shoes were clearly made for walking. one customer reported that she comfortably walked 15 to 20 miles the first time she wore them, adding that they defied the laws of physics. my feet have never felt lighter with shoes on, she said.if you love a walking workout, check out this round up of the best, most supportive walking shoes on the market.allbirds mens wool runners, $95, allbirdsmens: https://www.allbirds.com/products/mens-wool-runnerswomens: https://www.allbirds.com/products/womens-wool-runnersfor a versatile shoe that looks good and feels good on your foot, check out allbirds wool runners. but dont let the name fool you. these kicks are best suited for walking  or really anything, from running errands to going to work or even going out. theyre made from merino sheep wool which makes them very comfortable  you dont even need socks! meserve says. another great thing is that they do not get too hot in the summer or too cold in the winter; they are just right in all conditions.for hiking and trail runninghoka challenger atr 4, starting at $140, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/hoka-one-challenger-atr-running/dp/b079813ydltrail running requires shoes with more support, stability, traction, and protection, as most injuries are the result of missing a step due to varied terrain, yuen says. these shoes provide all of the above, and are still relatively lightweight. it also has enough cushioning to transition into a longer hike or walk combined with trail running, he adds.(find the womens version here.)altra superior 3.5, $110, zapposhttps://www.zappos.com/p/altra-footwear-superior-3-5-dark-blue/product/8977680/color/790trail running  especially at altitude  isnt easy. luckily, these shoes make it feel way easier than it should, says locke hughes, a utah-based ace-certified trainer, health coach, and avid hiker. these are super lightweight and flexible kicks with a zero drop, designed help improve natural running and walking form, and toe splay. note: if youre new to zero-drop footwear, build up by wearing these on shorter runs and hikes, then gradually build up to regular mileage.keen targhee iii mid waterproof, $135, zapposhttps://www.zappos.com/p/keen-targhee-ii-mid-waterproof-goat-crown-blue/product/8715663/color/661769this is a great pair of hiking boots for everyday hikers since they are lightweight, waterproof, and extremely breathable, meserve says. the toe protection in the front of the shoe helps keep your toes happy even on the longest hikes. these boots also have a new internal support mechanism that provides great arch support, as well as excellent traction, he adds. the final selling point? with built-in odor control, theyre less likely to get smelly after a long hike.vasque breeze ii gtx, $180, zapposhttps://www.zappos.com/p/vasque-breeze-iii-gtx-gargoyle-stone-blue/product/8813299/color/665742vasque has built upon their years of footwear experience to bring this boot to the next level in terms of comfort and performance. i hiked 20 miles over two days in these boots, and i didnt need to break them in at all  they were insanely comfortable and supportive over the two-day trek, hughes notes. the boots gore-tex waterproof membrane guarantees protection against wet or muddy trails, while also letting your feet breathe.merrell moab mid waterproof, $130, zapposhttps://www.zappos.com/p/merrell-moab-2-mid-waterproof-granite/product/8807339/color/5667sure, moab is a town in southern utah. but according to merrell, moab also means mother of all boots. and this boot definitely lives up to its name. it provides an insole thats contoured to your foot, as well as heel cushioning to absorb shock and provide stability. this cushioning helps to limit the pressure and any pain after hiking in the heel area, meserve notes. i am also a huge of the vibram soles, which this boot has.

codependent is one of those oft-used buzzwords that implies various levels of neediness in a relationship, or attachments tinged with a hint of desperation. but, actually, the term stems from something a little more specific to addiction and recovery.codependence is an imbalanced relationship pattern where one partner assumes a high-cost giver-rescuer role and the other the taker-victim role, explains shawn meghan burn, ph.d., author of unhealthy helping: a psychological guide for overcoming codependence, enabling, and other dysfunctional helping, and professor of psychology at cal poly, san luis obispo.rob weiss, ph.d. msw, ceo of seeking integrity, an online community that addresses behavioral health issues, and author of prodependence: moving beyond codependency says codependence implies that the loved ones of addicts, due to their underlying, often unconscious childhood issues tend to, as adults, give too much and love too much. thus, they attract, enable and enmesh with addicted partners.those assuming these roles, consciously or unconsciously, perpetuate the takers addiction-driven (mis)behavior. the codependent taker is usually some combination of needy, under-functioning, immature, addicted, entitled or troubled. they rely on the giver to take care of them, assume or soften the negative consequences for their actions, and to compensate for their under-functioning, burn explains. meanwhile, the codependent giver is usually an empathic, forgiving, competent and altruistic person. they play the role of extreme caregiver, rescuer, supporter or confidante. they show love and caring by making sacrifices for the taker that usually enable rather than empower them.this other buzzword enabler means, according to the merriam-webster dictionary: one that enables another to achieve an end; especially one who enables another to persist in self-destructive behavior (such as substance abuse) by providing excuses or by making it possible to avoid the consequences of such behavior.in codependent relationships, the balance of give and take is off kilterhealthy relationships, over time, have an equal balance of give and take in terms of fulfilling needs, rather than favoring the needs of one partner. codependent relationships are built around an imbalance of power that favor the needs of the taker, leaving the giver to keep on giving. codependent relationships violate some of the essential features of healthy close relationships, because they are enmeshed rather than interdependent, and imbalanced rather than equitable, burn says.weiss says, when people are labeled as codependent, they are told that they are trying to either enable or control the addicts behaviors. they put too much focus on someone elses behavior and not enough on their own, he says.why codependent relationships formwhat causes us to seek out these types of relationships? as far as givers go, available research suggests that emotional abuse and neglect put us at risk for codependence, says burn. if you learned that the only way to connect with a difficult parent was to subordinate your own needs and cater to theirs, then you may be set up for similar relationships throughout your life.weiss says the term codependence stems from something called trauma theory, which implies a traumatic event, sometimes occurring during formative years, possibly caused by violence or some other form of violation.according to burn, you may also have beliefs or personality traits that make it easier to fall into a codependent relationship. you can over-internalize religious or cultural values that prescribe self-sacrifice for others. being the giver in a codependent relationship can also satisfy needs such as the need to matter to someone, the need to feel competent, the need to feel close to someone, she says. as far as takers go, they are sometimes selfish and manipulative, irresponsible and entitled. but some are just troubled or addicted or lacking in life skills.according to an older study in the journal of substance abuse, both men and women in codependent relationships tend to be loyal to their partners despite the thankless stress. but, interestingly enough, codependent women showed five of the characteristics expected in codependency: control, exaggerated responsibility, worth dependency, rescue orientation and change orientation, while codependent men only showed two: control and exaggerated responsibility. their sense of self-worth wasnt as linked to their partners as women.regardless of your gender, if you feel you might be in a codependent relationship, its worth it to try and break the cycle. a mexican study from science and collective health says codependent relationships dont only affect the health of the giver and taker, but also affects the health of their families. they tend to suffer from more stress (and health issues from stress), their kids have a higher chance of becoming addicts themselves, and have a poorer quality of life in the psychological and physical domains than the general population.signs you may be in a codependent relationshipaccording to burn, you might be in a codependent relationship if:youre in a caretaking and (or) rescuing relationship with a person who uses you to avoid age-appropriate responsibilities, or the hard work of personal change.youre in an imbalanced relationship with well-intentioned, but ultimately unproductive supportive behaviors, such as enabling your partner, overlooking violated agreements and accepting bogus explanations.your efforts to fix a troubled, addicted or under-functioning person have fostered dependence on you, rather than on their life progress.takers engage in the flip side of the above behaviors, using or imposing upon their relationships (or using them as an excuse) to avoid responsibility, avoid their life progress and personal change.if you feel you might be in a legitimate codependent situation, burn says you first have to identify the behaviors you need to change, and realize what codependence costs you, your partner and your relationships.counseling and self-help materials can help you understand the roots of your behavior, because different change strategies may be relevant depending on the cause, says burn, who also says learning to set boundaries might be the best thing you can do for yourself. there are lots of things that make setting boundaries difficult, such as the other persons resistance and your guilt, and your commitment, which may be significant if you have devoted much time, energy and resources to the relationship, explains burn.if youre concerned about your relationship, reach out to a licensed therapist for help. for lower-cost or free services, look for these resources.more from betterwhat is gaslighting? and how do you know if its happening to you?how one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow to spot (and deal with) an energy vampirewhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

charbonnet-labat-glapion funeral home in the historic trem neighborhood of new orleans is far from the first funeral home ive set foot in, yet its the first ive taken in with a clear, objective frame of mind. visiting strictly as a journalist intent on learning about the business of funeral directing, i came with no grief of my own, no tears in my eyes, no gnawing clench of loss in my stomach.i was in good spirits, yet when i sat down with one of the homes directors, 72-year-old renard a. boissiere (people call me nardy, he said genially, or naughty, whichever you like, i was suddenly swept up by emotion. perhaps it was the busying of staff around me as they carried flowers and other dcor for a service scheduled for the next morning. or maybe it was the solemn room of sample caskets id just been given a tour of, or the ornate white stagecoach in the foyer, presently unoccupied but seeming to radiate the past  and future  carriage of loved ones whove gone.but i think it was boissieres story that had me so moved. in the business for over 50 years, naughty (as i quickly settled on calling him), lost both his funeral homes hurricane katrina. determined to continue providing for his close-knit community, he went to work for his cousin, louis charbonnet, iii, president and ceo of the business. though naughty was reluctant to go too much into the details, its safe to say that however challenging the transition of working for somebody else has been, it was the best choice for him.being of service and honoring your communitysince i was a teenager i have been a person of service, no matter what. my dad was the same way. he was a funeral director and i did a one-year apprenticeship for him, boissiere. back then it was much more [racially] segregated then today, but the divide still exists and katrina blew that wide open; it also exposed the poverty. we knew we were poor, but we didnt know how poor.boissiere, an african-american man who primarily works with local clientele, predominantly black, is something of a neighborhood star. when he walked me to my car after our interview, a passersby on the street called out hello or nodded in respect. all his life he has worked with the community to make sure they get the funeral their loved ones deserve, even if it means making little profit. priding his mom and pop roots, boissiere never considered selling his business to corporations despite their interest, nor did he consider joining their forces when he realized the insurance money wouldnt come close to covering restoration of his two locales. he lost his own home, in the flooding, too.corporations price tags can be impossible for familiesi worked for corporate america briefly [in a different industry] when i got out of college, but it wasnt for me, he says. and the problem with corporations in the funeral business is that they dont have a budget, they have a price, and if you cant afford it, youre out the door.tyler carver, a funeral director, vp of the texas funeral directors association (tfda) and co-founder of lighthouse funeral and cremation services, a funeral planning services site tells nbc news better that corporate funeral homes charge between $8-$10k; some of the bigger corporations will charge between $10k to $15k.these high prices arent exclusive to burials; cremation services, which have gained tremendous momentum in recent years, also cost a pretty petty.after conducting an extensive survey, josh slocum found that service corporation international (sci), which owns approximately 2,000 funeral homes and cemeteries under the brand dignity memorial, offered a simple cremation at a 72 percent higher price than independent funeral home, says caleb wilde, a sixth-generation funeral director at wilde funeral home and the author of confessions of a funeral director. dignitys simple burials were 50 percent higher than independent funeral homes, while a full-service funeral was 47 percent higher.independent funeral homes typically offer flexible pricinghow much an independent funeral home charges for services depends on a variety of factors including location, but they tend to be flexible on pricing.ive been in the industry for nearly 15 years and have worked with mom and pop as well as corporate, says carver. mom and pops are very flexible as far as prices go and they meet with the families directly. they go the extra mile to arrange services for families and want to help those who may not have enough money.boissiere declined to get into the details of how charbonnet handles flexible pricing, but sums their approach up simply: we get it done and we make sure it is done how the family wants. recently, the new orleans funeral home made the news for conducting a service where the body of a teenager lost to gun violence was positioned in a chair before a television set with a video game controller in his lap, donning a celtics jersey and with his favorite snacks within reach  a uniquely inspired tribute to the young mans life.funeral directors may be always on call  and the news is never goodrunning a small business in an increasingly corporate landscape is a hurdle for indie funeral homes, but ultimately, thats not their biggest personal challenge: its the distinct nature of the work, specifically the need to be your best, most productive self when assisting clients in the immediate wake of a terrific loss  a loss that can happen at any time of day or night.admittedly, i dont wear a smile when my cell phone rings at 2 am in the morning for a death call, says wilde. even after a decade of being full-time, those midnight death calls still wear on me like a weight. the chaos of death isnt a healthy lifestyle with its unscheduled hours, its highly emotive culture and the demands that come with it; but something happens to me when i see the family of the deceased. one minute ill be tired, unhappy and beaten, and the next minute im full of compassion, energy and resiliency. theres still something wonderful about the service aspect of this industry that keeps me here, that sustains me during the tough hours.death positivity and other methods of coping with mortalitypart of what helps wilde stay strong, is his attitude towards death, one that is build on death positivity.death positivity is a term that borrows from other perspectives like sex positivity and body positivity, explains wilde. it is simply embracing that part of ourselves that we so often deny: our mortality. its also being willing to move towards dying, death and the dead.  being death positive doesnt mean that you wear black all the time and avoid the sunlight at all costs. it doesnt mean that suicide ideation is your go-to for a good time; nor does it mean that you rejoice anytime and every time someone dies.what it does mean, wilde clarifies, is that theres no shame in grief; that we dont have to ignore our grief. it means that i dont feel guilty about my interest in death, nor do i feel guilty when i feel the loss of death. it means that i dont put timelines or stages to my grief; nor does it mean i try to get over or seek closure. grief is not a problem that i have to get over because mortality isnt a problem i have to get over. its who we are. and its okay to be broken.families whove just been through a tragedy can be understandably difficult to work with, and sometimes they take out their grief on the director. for carver, this is just part of what is ultimately a very rewarding job.we have to be a strong shoulder for these families and let them know we are here to help, says carver. there are times when family members in deep pain or feeling hate toward someone else take it out on the funeral director. we just have to be calm, sincere and understanding. and though we see death everyday, we cant be desensitized to it.an enhanced appreciation of life and a deep sense of purposeno matter how taxing their duties, the funeral directors i spoke with never seem to falter in their deep gratitude for the work they do, nor downplay how it has enhanced their own appreciation of life.there is nothing better than a family saying they could not have gone through this without your help, and knowing we could help through the grieving process that is so important, says carver. it does make me love my family more, and make me aware of the day-to-day events and what could happen. even the smallest thing that you think would not be scary  people have passed away from such things. it is shocking what can happen. so i take advantage of every moment with my kids, and it can be hard because were on call 24/7. there are a lot of family events ive missed out on, but every moment i do have with my loved ones, i enjoy.boissiere is quick to point out that this isnt a business for those who want to make big money, nor is it ideal for the faint of heart (you do have to work extensively with corpses), and if youre in the business long enough, youll likely find yourself arranging the funerals of people you knew and loved dearly.none of this is easy, but all of it is magnificently worth it in the end.i buried my mommy and daddy, then my cousins, boissiere says. sometimes its very, very hard. sometimes i cant close the casket. but i have great faith and i know this is my mission and my purpose. this is what i am supposed to be.

my mother is poor. she is poor in the true economic meaning of the word. nearing 70, my mom lives in government housing, relies on social security payments as her sole income (roughly $1000 to cover rent and everything else in los angeles) and has no savings.i help her out, but not without undercurrents of judgment that can surface harshly. when she wears something new, ill give a compliment and then a sermon on why she should not have spent the money. when she calls to tell me she bought a bunch of lotto tickets, i might get off the phone to stop from asking for the zillionth time, why do you spend on stuff that wont help you in the long-term?i finally have some good answers to this question, along with expert advice for my mother that could benefit us both.when were poor, our brains work in a state of deprivationi was inspired to do some investigating after reading a new bankrate report which found that households in the lowest-income bracket (under $30,000 a year) spend 13 percent of their income on financial vices including dining out, pre-made beverages and lottery tickets. households earning $75,000 or more spend considerably less on these things, using 2.6 percent of their income on them.i reached out to experts in economy, marketing and neuroscience to figure out why theres this disparity. the neuroscientific takeaway alone makes a compelling case. when were financially impoverished, our brains are impoverished in their own way.there is good evidence showing that the state of being poor, of poverty itself, impairs good economic decision making, says matt johnson, an associate dean of undergraduate programs at hult international business school who teaches psychology and neuroscience and co-authored the forthcoming book \"allure: the neuroscience of consumerism.\"research by my colleague jiaying zhao, found that the act of being poor and stressed impairs cognitive ability, johnson goes on. when you are depleted you will always make the more immediately gratifying decision. saving is the last thing you want to do because your brain is unable to ignore prepotent urges to fill immediate need.there a couple different roles at play: on one hand, poverty causes stress and stress can deplete atp molecules, the type of glucose that fuels the brain and the our ability for clear judgments (depletion of these molecules is also partly responsible for hanger), johnson explains. you just dont have the neuroscientific bandwidth to incorporate variables to think of the future and are more likely to think with primitive parts of your brain. theres no evolutionary reason we should be good at budgeting; if anything we learn that if you have a resource in front of you, use it.the behavioral economics model hyperbolic discounting speaks to this phenomenon.if you offer someone $10 now or $12 in two weeks, theyre usually able to take the greater amount later  but when you add a stressor and make them memorize a string of numbers and then make the choice, theyre more likely to take the $10 because their brains are taxed, says johnson.we buy to send a status signal and feel a winsome part of societyanother factor that can motivate us to spend is the need (often unconscious) to show others that we arent just a poor person; were human beings, says jeff galak, associate professor of marketing at carnegie mellon universitys tepper school of business.this is status signaling, galak says, explaining that essentially you make a purchase to show the world that youre a desirable part of it. you may be hurting financially by spending money on starbucks, but theres something inexplicably gratifying about walking down the street with that starbucks-branded cup in your hand and being, whether its quite true or not, a person who can afford the common luxury.we may even gravitate to that starbucks drink specifically because its so much more attainable than say, a tesla or any other extravagance with which high-income earners are associated.if beyonc is walking around with starbucks and wearing a pair of [very expensive] shoes, well maybe you think i cant afford those shoes but i can afford that latte, says daniel fragiadakis, phd, assistant professor of economics at villanova school of business, adding that starbucks is also appealing because, what does a successful member of society do? they buy their latt in the morning.if it makes you happy, theres argument that its money well spentas a marketing professor i struggle with how were convincing people to buy things they dont need, but on the other hand if it brings them joy or pleasure, does that bring loss? says galak. you can make the argument on both sides, but people need to feel happy and maybe buying frivolous things isnt so bad.i really thought about this idea, that maybe frivolity isnt so bad when it brings joy, and it helped me gain more empathy for my mother. shes not just buying that new purse because she doesnt care about money or how hard i work to make sure she has what she needs; shes buying it because shes too stressed to implement long-term judgment, and wants to feel like she belongs in a society that links stuff to worth. additionally, this seemingly dumb purchase is giving her reprieve, however fleeting, from a dismal financial reality.when youre in a state of deprivation, be it financial or sleep, youre looking for anything to break you out of that state, says galak. its like psychological medicine. if i could just consume something to make myself feel like im not as bad off as i am... this isnt a fault. people are in a bad situation and this is one form of feeling better.tips to break the vicious cyclestill, spending when you cant quite afford it can lead to more stress, perpetuating a vicious cycle of spending, stressing, spending again, then stressing more.if you want to make improvements to your spending habits, consider these expert tips:cultivate self-awarenessit is difficult and its natural to feel compelled to buy, says johnson. increased self awareness is really important, and people are generally unaware of what drives behavior. if you know about these neuroscientific workings and social signaling going on, the [behavior] can be alleviated.brush up on financial literacyas a society, were terrible at teaching financial literacy, says galak. i didnt have a single class on that in high school. were just supposed to figure it out. thats a societal problem and its unfair to punish people and say theyre doing a bad job when as a society we havent trained them to do a good one. how can you understand an incredibly complex topic with no training?there are a number of free ways to do this. you can talk with a representative at your bank, watch financial crash course videos on youtube, and search personal finance sites like nerdwallet and wisebread to learn more about money matters on your mind. theres also a plethora of apps to help you track and allocate your money.make a budget when youre feeling your best (and wealthiest)i always revamp my budget when im scared i wont make ends meet. for less stress and better results, i should do this when ive just been paid and am in a good place.just as you shouldnt go grocery shopping when youre hungry, you shouldnt make a budget when youre in a financial crisis, says johnson. budget in when youre most availed of resources. do it when you get paid and have had good sleep, a nice meal and are at your most high-functioning.

imagine youre three days away from that week-long vacation with more items on your to-do list than normal. youve got to pick up your dry cleaning, finish a mountain of household chores, meet that looming work deadline, and make arrangements for your rental car. and yet, with hours to spare, you somehow manage to get it all done  and then some.this is the phenomenon of pre-vacation energy, something that many of us enjoy even if we dont fully understand where all that extra energy comes from. to dissect the unique surge in motivation, and to be able to harness it when no break is on the horizon, we asked experts to provide some insight.pre-vacation energy, explainedin general, the way we feel is constantly being influenced by a variety of factors, ranging from objective stressors to our thoughts to physical sensations. the sum of all these factors ultimately affects our general mood and motivation level.in the case of an upcoming vacation, we begin to feel excited and happy at the thought of whatever blissful plans are approaching. dr. lara fielding, a behavioral psychologist and the author of \"mastering adulthood\", says this happiness is likely due to a surge of dopamine production, a feel-good chemical thats released in our brain whenever we experience something rewarding.the thoughts of forthcoming relief may trigger this dopaminergic pathway, she says. much like we salivate in expectation of a delicious meal when were hungry, when we imagine our break from work, our bodies are likely to let go of the unconscious tension, which contributes to fatigue and lack of motivation. in that letting go, we regain the lightness of that pre-vacation energy.also, as vacation approaches, many feel a strong pull to get as much done as possible before officially signing off. we inherently know that once alls wrapped up at home, were better able to melt into the relaxing arms of vacation. the combination of that dopamine surge paired with a desire to tie up loose ends is a seriously motivating combo.\"this is why youll find that many people plan more and focus more on the preparation of a vacation, notes dr. stacia pierce, a life coach and motivational speaker. they pack with the trip in mind, finish assignments, get their home cleaned, shop for new clothes. everything is motivated by the trip itself and how they want to feel on the trip and when they return home.\"5 ways to recreate pre-vacation energybut you dont have to have a caribbean vacation on the calendar to recreate that surge of dopamine-backed motivation. yep, its possible to tap into when theres no vacation in sight. heres how:pencil in weekend adventures: by adventure, we mean anything thats a departure from your routine. maybe its attending a donut festival, hitting the symphony, or having a get-together with friends. plan something short, but extraordinary, that you can look forward to doing. spend time meditating on your reward and how completing your goals will allow you to enjoy the rewards, says dr. pierce.make your goals more visible: for large-scale goals, dr. pierce recommends writing your goals down and putting them in a place youll see every day. you can also add pictures and an affirmation to create more of a visible and emotional impact. by being reminded of your goal, youll feel more motivated to do whats necessary to reach it, she says. for small-scale goals, simply writing out a to-do list can be surprisingly motivating. dont underestimate the blissful all done! reward of crossing tasks off once theyre completed.get your sweat on: you know what else sends a surge of feel-good chemicals through your body? exercise. whether its a brisk morning walk or an intense boxing session, youll find that the extra endorphins you created during your workout will give you a boost of energy throughout the day.treat yourself  seriously: plan something small that youll genuinely look forward to, such as an evening at home binging your favorite tv show, finally booking that massage, or purchasing that accessory youve been eyeing for months. consider the treat your reward for completing all your tasks during the day.think more positively: as a species we tend to focus on negatives, but doing so poorly impacts our motivation levels. learn to notice when your mind is getting pulled into the slippery slope of the human negativity bias, says dr. fielding. instead, lock your thoughts and self-talk on whats great in your life. find the vacation-like moments that surround you.more from bettertry this simple trick to unburden yourself from an over-stuffed schedulehow to train your brain to accept change, according to neurosciencethis daily gratitude routine can train your brain to be happierhow to transform your anxious thoughts into productive actionswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

scratching your head about what to get your favorite cook? we turned to some of the nations top food pros for their favorite gift ideas. every pick on the list makes healthy cooking fun, fast and full of flavor, so you know each one sends a thoughtful message to friends and family on your holiday gift list. to accompany your gift, consider picking up one of our pros cookbooks to provide some ideas to put the new gadget to work.better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.food processorprice: $148.56, amazon this tool is a must-have in every kitchen! katie higgins, the healthy food blogger behind chocolate covered katie, recommends this cuisinart model. i use this food processor to dice carrots or zucchini, shred sweet potatoes for hash browns, blend shredded coconut into butter, and to make my favorite black bean brownies. i much prefer a food processor over a blender, because i find it more evenly processes all ingredients thanks to the larger surface area, she says.price: $37.02, amazonhealth-supportive chef and recipe developer danielle krupa recommends a smaller version, cuisinart mini-prep food processor. it makes whipping up healthy items like hummus, fresh salsa, pesto, nut butters, energy bites, homemade baby pures and more a cinch. plus, its affordable, comes in a variety of colors, is easy to clean and takes up very little kitchen space, she says.mandoline slicerprice: $29.97, amazon for cutting the perfect, evenly sliced veggies like a pro chef, nothing beats a mandolin slicer. my absolute favorite utensil is a mandolin slicer says eden grinshpan, co-founder and executive chef of dez, and host of top chef canada, who recommends the benriner mandolin slicer. i always have a big salad on my table and it just cuts the veggies so beautifully. a mandolin slicer makes it so easy to make gorgeous salads, which grinshpan says encourages her to eat them more. theyre so inexpensive and a great gift! she notes.this versatile tool does more than create the perfect salad veggies. ellie krieger, rd, host of ellies real good food on public television and two-time james beard award winning cookbook author, uses hers to create nutritious chips. my favorite healthy cooking gadget is this mandoline slicer that has various blades and a safety holder to protect your hand when slicing. its ideal for turning fruits and vegetables  like potatoes, zucchini, apples and pear  into crisp (healthful) chips in the oven.mini offset spatulaprice: $5.36, amazonthough luxe gifts may be alluring, chefs prize simple gadgets, too. chloe coscarelli, vegan chef and author of \"chloe flavor\", recommends this mini offset spatula. this tool is small but mighty, and its less than $5.00, which makes it the perfect stocking stuffer! she says. coscarelli explains what makes this gift so great: it allows for perfect wrist action whether youre spreading avocado on toast or frosting on cupcakes. ive even frosted an entire wedding cake with it. oh, and you can never have too many because they tend to get lost!immersion blenderprice: $26.99, amazonany home cook will appreciate this multi-tasking tool. its great for pureeing vegetable or lentil soups right in the pot, making homemade sauces, salad dressings, and more, says chef jerran boyer of health nut chefs, who recommends this cuisinart hand blender. its one of the best tools a chef or home cook can have in their kitchen!instant potprice: $79.95, amazonif the cook on your gift list doesnt already have this jack-of-all-trades, youre going to want to grab one of these popular appliances. among the various models, dana angelo white, rd, author of the \"healthy instant pot cookbook\" and the \"healthy air fryer cookbook\", suggests the instant pot 6-qt duo plus 60 or the slightly older and lower-priced instant pot 6-qt duo 60.pressure cooking prepares food quickly and conveniently, plus the high pressure also helps retain nutrients, says white, who praises the instant pots versatility. you can also saut, slow cook and bake (yes, bake) in the instant pot. according to white, the 6-qt version is the perfect size for making large batches of soup, chili, pulled pork and pasta as well as lightened up desserts like cheesecake, poached pears and crme brulee. and if the person on your gift list is into #mealprep, the instant pot will come in handy. its my secret weapon for healthy meal prep, says white. i make bulk batches of oatmeal, hard cooked eggs, sweet potatoes, brown rice, beans and greek yogurt for the week ahead.air fryerprice: $138.74, amazonwhite is also a fan of the air fryer. which air fryer you choose really depends on how many people youre cooking for, she notes. if youre gifting an air fryer to a couple, white recommends the phillips viva. its a great basic and affordable model and perfect for cooking for two. for larger families, she suggests the phillips avance xl; for the cook who entertains, theres even an xxl model.the biggest secret about air fryers is just how useful they can be for all kinds of cooking. of course, theres the appeal of lighter, non-fried versions of chicken wings and fish sticks, but you can also make egg sandwiches, shrimp scampi and spiced nuts, explains white. vegetable dishes, like glazed carrots, kale chips, and stuffed mushrooms are some of the recipes i make the most, she says. according to white, the air fryer acts like a mini convention oven, circulating hot air around the food, leaving it evenly cooked and crispy on all sides. that means that recipes that typically call for a ton of oil often need none (or a couple of teaspoons at the most) so the calorie savings can really stack up!microplane zesterprice: $12.95, amazonheres another small but mighty must-have for the healthy home cook in your life. i use the microplane zester for grating everything from garlic and ginger, to lime, orange, nutmeg and dried lime, says najmieh batmanglij, whose newest cookbook, \"cooking in iran: regional recipes and kitchen secrets\" was just named one of 2018s best cookbooks by the new york times. ive also used the gadget for some unexpected ingredients, like goat cheese, cooked potatoes, tomatoes and cucumber for my famous yogurt soup, she adds. according to bagmanglij, the zester is an easy way to add flare to a variety of dishes. she recommends the microplane 40020 classic zester/grater, which has a long, easy-to-hold handle.stand mixerprice: $199.99, amazonthis luxury appliance is on every home cooks wish list. genevieve ko, the author of \"better baking: wholesome ingredients, delicious desserts\" explains why: because a stand mixer makes baking so easy, i never have to buy store-bought treats, which are loaded with a lot more sugar than i like and, sometimes, mystery ingredients that cant possibly be good for anybody. homemade is always better for you than store-bought because you know exactly whats going into the goodies. plus, they taste better! kos pro pick is the kitchenaid stand mixer. i have both the smaller tilt head one, as well as the larger bowl lift one. during this busy baking season, i often have both running at the same time! ko also recommends the pasta maker attachment, which makes a great gift for cooks whose kitchens are already stocked with this workhorse. its great for simple homemade pasta, but also works for rolling out thin, sturdy cracker or cookie dough, she says.blenderprice: $30.89, amazonaccording to sammi haber brondo, ms rd, author of \"the essential vegetable cookbook\", a blender makes the perfect gift. blenders are one of my favorite, must-have kitchen tools. theyre extremely versatile and can be used in so many different, easy recipes. aside from smoothies, you can puree roasted veggies with broth to make soup, mix ingredients (like banana, oats and eggs) for healthy pancakes, or even mix brownie ingredients to bake brownies, she says. her choice: the magic bullet because its inexpensive, easy to usenand easy to clean.spiralizerprice: $24.99, amazoncookbook author melissa darabian suggests a spiralizer for any home cook who doesnt have one. an inexpensive one is a great gift because its low-pressure. super fancy models require an investment of time as well as trial and error. but an inexpensive model just begs to be tried out with a zucchini right away, she explains. darabian has this gift idea for someone special on your list: give the spiralizer plus a few jars of high-quality pasta sauces.more holiday gift ideasunder $30: 11 thoughtful gifts if youre on a budget15 gadgets and gifts that will take your fitness routine to the next levelthe best workout shoes for women, according to fitness experts18 unique gifts that give back to those in needwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

like a wardrobe, your routines should evolve with the seasons of your life, according to productivity blogger ben whiting.all too often, whiting says, people will hold onto routines even when they no longer work.your goals and dreams as you move through life will shift and change in some ways, and so your wardrobe  your routines  should be fitted to not only whats going on outside of you but also to whats going on with you as a person, whiting tells nbc news better.a good routine will help you build practice and give you the momentum to push towards your goals, whiting says. but for a routine to be truly effective, he says, it must also be flexible.understand that as life changes, so too will your routinesletting go of routines can be hard, according to whiting.he recalls his college years. each morning, he got up early to work out and practice basketball. as he got older, he slowly started using that time to write fiction. he would get up every morning at 4 am to practice his craft.my wife jokes that i would get up at the same time every day  that alarm goes off and im getting up come hell or high water, it doesnt matter what it is, he says. and i think thats a valuable trait that i have, but its also something that can go too far and be too controlling.at 31, whiting is now married with a 7-year-old daughter and 4-year-old son, and works full time as a lighting designer near dallas, texas. in his spare time, he blogs about productivity.as i gained more responsibility in life and things have changed over the years from where i was 5 or 10 years ago, ive had to adapt the routines that i would try to put in place for side pursuits or side hustles, he says.adapt a flexible routinea routine should be flexible enough that there is balance between being able to carry through with a goal without being so dogmatic that you stick with it even when its no longer useful, says whiting.the designer says routines are still important to him, but that flexibility is key. to prioritize time with his children, whiting has allowed his writing routine to become less rigid. but he has no intention of letting it go by the wayside.im trying to make it more regular, and that usually ends up being something that i do maybe on my lunch break, or ill do brainstorming on my commute home, and then kind of look for other gaps and available time to make progress, he says.how to know its time to adaptwhen whiting feels stuck in a routine, he asks himself two questions:#1: is this routine still serving where i want to go and what i want to do?#2: is this the best routine for what im trying to achieve given where i am right now, or do i need a slightly different routine?if the answer is no, then its time to evolve, he says.its been beneficial for me to recognize that i dont have to hold [onto] routines at all costs, whiting says, and that its ok to flex and adapt and change with the seasons.more tips for a better day9 things to do this morning to make your whole day more productive12 tips to master your kids morning routine and eliminate stressthe productivity hack that allowed me to accomplish more in less time15 protein-packed breakfasts that can help curb cravingswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the next time youre scrolling through instagram, getting your daily doses of inspo and fomo, keep in mind that behind that colorful grid lurks a dirty little secret. turns out were spending  many of us a lot  in pursuit of the perfect gram.according to a recent chase slate survey, 77 percent of millennials made purchases that they would then instagram, including food, vacations and clothing, and were willing to spend nearly twice as much money to achieve the perfect post ($137) as the general population ($70).this type of spending is, at least in part, a means of navigating a world in which a commonly reinforced message is, i am if i have, explains dr. robi ludwig, psychotherapist and host of \"talking live.\" we live in a world that values what people have, rather than things that actually lead to fulfillment. its a byproduct of a culture thats gone amiss. people want to appear successful and the best way to communicate that is with imagery.one reason millennials may be the biggest spenders is because appearances tend to matter more when youre younger, ludwig says. millennials are more image-conscious, and they grew up watching people get famous for being famous, not because they had talent. so its easy for them to think, if my presentation is alluring enough, ill get opportunities, ill become a celebrity.living the #influencerlifea lot of people  known as influencers  make far more money on instagram than they spend by charging a fee for sponsored posts. they most often have followings of 500,000 or more, and are found in all industries including fashion, wellness, motherhood and travel. (nano-influencers, who have much smaller followings, sometimes do the same in exchange for free stuff.) folks interested in becoming an influencer may view their spending on social media spending as essential  the quintessential gotta spend money to make money logic. but thats a slippery slope, cautions farnoosh torabi, financial education ambassador for chase slate. people rationalize it and say, im doing this because its going to help me make money one day, but in the long run thats not a great business plan, if thats your whole plan, torabi says.even if your posts are all expertly shot and curated, its no guaranteed youll be able to distinguish yourself from the herd, given the glut of participants in the influencer space. we try to impress people by staying on top of the latest trends, and then we wind up all living this cookie cutter life, when what we really want is to stand out, says rachel cruze, author of \"love your life, not theirs\" and host of \"the rachel cruze show.\" when were authentic and when were our true selves, thats when we can impress people without going into debt. then we can actually achieve the goal we were working toward in the first place.striking the balancespending money on social media posts from time to time doesnt have to be a bad thing, torabi says. a single photoshoot can yield a wide variety of material, including multiple stories, different angles or outfits and then theres always #throwbackthursday for reviving content you love. the goal is that you make your investment count. keep track of everything so youll know how much youve spent in a given month or year, and you can ensure youre not going over budget. anything that makes you compromise on having a financially secure future is dangerous, torabi says.of course likes dont have to equal money spent. there are plenty of ways to rein in your social media spending while also creating a brand and profile people will be eager to follow. here are a few.1. share more of yourself, not your goods or what you think others wantsocial media can easily cause us to go down a rabbit hole of wanting our real lives to measure up to someone elses highlight reel, cruze warns. if we arent careful, we can wind up chasing someone elses values instead of our own, and the road to comparison always dead-ends in debt, she says. instead of sharing your latest purchase, share whats inspiring you today, or something you think is uplifting or funny.2. share behind-the-scenes contentpeople love to see the process and the messiness of day-to-day life. show your work and be authentic and vulnerable. people dont need filters or the perfect backdrop, torabi says. most followers just want to feel a connection with you. if you can make them feel like youre speaking directly to them, theyre going to be engaged.3. be thoughtful about spendingif youre making a purchase for instagram, stop and ask yourself if its worth it. maybe you should do something not because its going to be on instagram, but because its actually going to create memories and be a wonderful experience, torabi says. if you do share something that you purchase, dont just talk about the fact that you bought it. instead, tell people why you like it, and what you did to save up for it. people want context and connection.4. know that no social media platform is going to be around foreveri dont know what the next big platform will be, but there will be one, ludwig says. when the shift happens, what will you be left with? in other words, your long-term goals (like buying a house, having a stress-free retirement, etc.) should always be your priority. if you want to spend money on instagram, think of it like an alternative investment, like crypto, torabi says. it can be fun, and you might get a payoff, but the vast majority of your money should be going into more solid investments.5. take a vacation from social mediaive taken breaks before, and its amazing what happens when you actually experience your own life instead of the life someone else is portraying through a screen, cruze says. if you find yourself tempted to spend money you dont have because of instagram, consider stepping away for a bit, or unfollowing the accounts that may be encouraging you to invest more time and money than is wise.kathryn tuggle contributed to this report.more savings hacksthe one move you can make to improve your wealth and healthhow a do-not-buy list can save you hundreds of dollars13 easy ways to save moneyhow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

the giving season is here and charitable organizations big and small are contacting potential donors by mail, email and phone. for most nonprofits, year-end donations are critical, so these solicitations are designed to tug at your heartstrings.we want people to understand that not every appeal is right for them, said art taylor, president and ceo of the bbb wise giving alliance. we like to assume, sometimes improperly, that every solicitation or every charity out there is legitimate  and thats just not true. some groups may have good intentions, but are not capable of fulfilling them. some are outright scammers.a lot of people deal with the solicitations as they pour in. that can lead to bad decisions. a better way, experts say, is to have a charitable giving plan. set a budget and pick your priorities.once you figure out the budget and the causes you really like, then its just a matter of figuring out which charities you need to pick, said eileen heisman, ceo of national philanthropic trust. spend as much time looking for background information on a charity as you do looking for a restaurant. you can find out a lot in 10 or 15 minutes because the internet makes it so easy.by doing a little research, you can give wisely, avoiding the scams and giving your money to good charities that will efficiently use your donations for the causes you want to support. these three websites can help you make informed decisions:give.org: this is the website of the bbb wise giving alliance. it provides reports on about 1,300 national charities, as well as reports on more than 10,000 local charities from better business bureau offices in the u.s. and canada. the bbb does not rank charities, it rates them on 20 standards, including: program expenses, effectiveness, website disclosures, board oversight and donor privacy.charity navigator: charity navigator has information on all 1.6 million nonprofits registered in the u.s. it rates groups from zero to five stars by evaluating how efficiently a charity uses donations, how well it has sustained its programs and services over time, and its level of commitment to accountability and transparency. charities with three or four stars either meet or exceed industry standards for financial health and accountability. the site has a list of charities with perfect scores and charity navigator advisories (groups that its experts have concerns about).charitywatch: founded 25 years ago as the american institute of philanthropy, the site bills itself as americas most independent, assertive charity watchdog. charitywatch uses an a+ to f rating system that shows how efficiently a charity uses donations. groups on the top-rated charities list generally spend 75 percent or more of their budgets on programs, spend $25 or less to raise $100 in public support, and meet charitywatchs standards for governance and disclosure.tip: many states require charities to register in order to solicit. this information can be found on the websites for your state attorney general or secretary of state.expert tips on how to give wiselyamericans are generous. individual donations to u.s. charities totaled an estimated $287 billion last year, according to giving usa.while most charitable organizations are legitimate, charity fraud takes millions of dollars a year in donations away from legitimate charities, tracy thorleifson, an attorney with the federal trade commission who specializes in charity fraud, told nbc news better.just one example: a group of four bogus cancer charities shut down by the ftc two years ago  cancer fund of america, childrens cancer fund of america, cancer support services and breast cancer society  were accused of bilking donors out of $187 million. the ftc said the overwhelming majority of donations were spent on their operators, families and friends, and fundraisers.these five tips can help you avoid the bad actors and make smart decisions with your charitable dollars:resist the urge to give on the spot: giving to someone who shows up at your door is always risky. with a phone call, you have no idea whos really on the other end of the line. it could be a clever con artist trying to steal your credit or debit card information.dont respond to pressure tactics: legitimate charities will never pressure you to give immediately. theyre happy to send information about their mission and programs. remember: its ok to say no, even to a heart-wrenching appeal.watch out for sound-alike names: many charities have the words cancer, heart, veterans or children in their names. questionable groups often choose names that sound like famous, well-known charities. names can be confusing, so make sure you give your money to the charity youve chosen, not one thats been created to fool you.dont be swayed by gifts: direct mail solicitations at this time of year often include address labels, greeting cards or calendars. these free gifts tend to increase donations. you do not have to donate in order to keep these items.know the warning signs of a charity scam: avoid any solicitation that asks you to wire money or offers to send a courier or overnight delivery service to collect your donation immediately, guarantees youll win a sweepstakes in exchange for a contribution or asks you to honor a pledge you dont remember making.the best advice: give directlythe safest and most efficient way to put your charitable dollars to work is to avoid phone solicitations and donate directly to the charities of your choice.a phone call can feel like a very pressure-filled situation, said ashley post, communications manager at charity navigator. we encourage donors to just say, thanks for calling and thanks for the information and then do their research if they want to give to that organization.soliciting donations by phone is also very expensive, which means less of your money goes to the charity.most of the money that you donate when contacted by a telemarketer is going to end up with the company thats calling you on behalf of the charity, said the bbbs taylor. if you hear an appeal over the phone that youre interested in, go directly to the charitys website and make a donation. that way the charity will get all the money.more information on charitable giving:charity navigator: avoiding charity scams: questions to ask &amp; ways to givecharity watch: tips for giving wiselybbb: basic giving tipsftc: how to donate wisely and avoid charity scamswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

less than perfect pie? sub-par potatoes? unexpected relatives showing up? whatever the thanksgiving day disaster, fresco by scottos anthony scotto and dirt candys amanda cohen can fix your feast. their easy, last-minute side dish recipes will make sure you have enough food to feed all your friends and family. scotto shows us how to make an italian rice stuffing with sausage and cohen tosses together a simple-but-impressive shaved brussels sprout salad.heading 2heading 3using rice instead of bread, and adding savory sausage and melty cheeses, gives this stuffing a distinctly italian flavor.horizontal lineyour guests will never guess that it only took 5 minutes to toss together this impressive salad. the shaved sprouts, sweet apricots and crunchy hazelnuts make this starter a real crowd-pleaser.some people are hard to shop for. some people have very specific tastes. and others simply prefer their gifts on the, um, humorous side. this novelty gift guide is for all those people.list types:ordered listitem 1item 2item 3item aitem bitem cunordered listitem 1item 2item 3item aitem bitem cfrom the only \"harry potter\" gift a potterhead needs to the one gift to get people who are perpetually late (we all have that friend), this list has all the funny, witty and unique gifts we could think of.blockquotepullquoteliftoutthe internet is a vast place, with many, many weird and wonderful gift ideas. so, while this guide is a great place to start, if youre looking for something maybe a little less eccentric, browse through our sortable gift guides or our brand new gift finding tool too.all purposesome people are hard to shop for. some people have very specific tastes. and others simply prefer their gifts on the, um, humorous side. this novelty gift guide is for all those people.from the only \"harry potter\" gift a potterhead needs to the one gift to get people who are perpetually late (we all have that friend), this list has all the funny, witty and unique gifts we could think of.the internet is a vast place, with many, many weird and wonderful gift ideas. so, while this guide is a great place to start, if youre looking for something maybe a little less eccentric, browse through our sortable gift guides or our brand new gift finding tool too.happy gifting, everyone!not only should the person you get this for have a sarcastic sense of humor, they should also not mind getting stared (and maybe glared) at from time to time. this hilarious take on a tote bag is bound to get some laughs from any shopping-obsessed loved ones who dont take themselves too seriously.everyone knows a sophia. her feisty, quick wit has withstood the test of time. any true \"golden girls\" fan can recall a savage zinger or two from the matriarch of the clan ... which dorothy did notappreciate as much as we did.the remains of two people were found in structures in the towns of paradise and magalia in butte county in the aftermath of the camp fire, which raged through the wooded area after igniting nov. 8, butte county sheriff-coroner kory l. honea said

the table setting has come together beautifully, your home smells of freshly baked rolls, roasted turkey and savory vegetables, and everything seems to be going according to plan. but when the doorbell rings, you tense up a little bit, either subconsciously or fully aware of the dramatic showdown that could happen in your dining room over the next three hours. somehow, despite the years of effort youve put into smoothing out those complicated in-law dynamics  sometimes bending over backward in the name of peace  the tension continues to surface at gatherings.why in-law relationships are so trickywhile one could point to many reasons why in-law relationships are so notoriously difficult to manage, it really boils down to two primary issues: boundaries and expectations.families can have rather strange boundaries, says dr. ramani durvasula, a psychologist who specializes in relationships. when an in-law enters a new family situation, he or she inherits those boundaries and the problems associated with those boundaries, [which] can manifest in lots of ways.for example, a mother in-law who makes herself at home in her sons kitchen, a father in-law who gives unsolicited career advice, or in-laws who use money to exert control over a couple. these boundaries are typically entrenched after a lifetime together, which means its essentially impossible to reconfigure them  hence the struggle.differing expectations for how to manage things  such as holiday plans, child-rearing, visiting frequency, home presentation, and even work balance  can also contribute to a strained relationship. these unmet expectations, at either end, are a breeding ground for messy emotions, ranging from anger to frustration to sadness.unmet expectations strain all relationships, but the stakes are high in in-law relationships because they are stakeholders in your marriage, and your children if you decide to have them, as well as your household and even issues like finances, says dr. durvasula.to help bridge the gap between differing expectations, make sure you and your partner are on the same page, especially on topics that are particularly contentious with your in-laws.a united front makes a huge difference, says dr. durvasula. you do not want to be figuring things out on the fly with your spouse while in the cross hairs of your in-laws. if you and your spouse are on the same page, then you can take the path of least resistance with in-laws and just smile politely and say sure, but then do things the way that you and your spouse believe is appropriate for your relationship.some dynamics are more complicated than otherswhile many in-law relationship issues are the result of overstepping boundaries or not meeting expectations, sometimes other factors are at play. stereotypically and often anecdotally, we see particularly embittered relationships between mother-in-law and her son or daughter in law. jean, a 58 year old from indiana who is using her middle name and prefers not to disclose her first and last name for obvious reasons, told nbc news better that shes been struggling to find a happy ground with her mother-in-law for two decades.one time, when the kids were little, i had dirty dishes in the sink and a pile of clean laundry dumped on the couch to be folded. my mother-in-law came in, looked at it, and said, i dont know how people live like this. she didnt feel the least bit bad about how unfiltered that remark was or how bad it would make me feel, wilson says. also, her hostility, domineering ways and criticism were so hard to live with [when visiting her] that id be in tears the last couple of days.wilson says that shes received comments from her mother-in-law expressing that she feels like she lost her son. such feelings arent so rare, according to dr. laurie ann levin, a clinical psychologist with decades of experience dissecting familial stressors.a mother-in-laws often unconscious fear is that her son has or will forsake her for his wife, preferring her family and her family holiday functions, thereby leaving less time, attention and care for his mother, she notes. in the face of a nitpicky mother-in-law who harbors such feelings, she says its vital to remind yourself of your true nature and worth. (weve also outlined some helpful tips below.)there are some extreme outliers to consider in regard to complicated in-law relationships, as well. these include widely varying (and excessively vocal) ideologies, mental illness and substance abuse. minimal, controlled contact is ideal here, though in dangerous situations it may be best to practice complete avoidance. a therapist can help you navigate this more strategically.five ways to get through holiday dinner with difficult in-lawsin many cases, conflict is a two-way street. while you may not be able to smooth things over entirely, you can improve a complicated relationship with your in-laws by starting with the below advice.prepare yourself mentally: if your father-in-law always brings up politics or your mother-in-law always makes passive aggressive digs, dont expect anything different the next time you see each other. if you are mentally prepared for their nonsense, it may still hurt, but it wont be startling, says dr. durvasula. its like putting on a heavy coat on a very cold day, its still chilly, but at least you are prepared and can endure it for a little while.set clear start and end times: sometimes the biggest stress is not being able to get away or feeling guilted into staying longer. kyle, a 34 year old from arizona who is also using his middle name, told nbc news better that keeping a firm schedule helps prevent trouble with his mother-in-law. their relationship has been deeply contentious since they first met. we often schedule time to see her and let her know we have to be somewhere else by a certain time, he says. they get time alone with us, but its limited so we dont all go crazy. this is a compromise.stick to neutral topics: if you know of topics that trigger your in-laws, avoid those topics completely. should the subject come up, divert. a great default topic is how much you love or are proud of their daughter or son. this is an easy way to connect with your in-law and to set the tone for your interaction for the occasion, says dr. colleen mullen, a psychologist and family therapist.come up with a code word. when you have your pre-holiday powwow with your significant other to get on the same page about those \"expectations\" that come up year after year, dr. mullen also suggests creating a code word with your partner. using it will signal to them that you are getting annoyed and may need to be rescued from the conversation, or that you are just going to step out and get some fresh air, she says.kill them with kindness: complimenting your in-law right out of the gate could easily buy you a few hours of sanity, says dr. durvasula: complimenting a person is like defusing a bomb, or at least changing the thermostat. it may feel disingenuous, but anyone can find one nice thing to say about someone. even if the in-laws are gunning for a fight, you can snip those wires.holiday survival guidehealthier sides and desserts for your holiday tablehow to pack a carry-on (and save on airline baggage fees)how a spending to-do-list can help you save big on holiday shoppingwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as black friday and cyber monday deals pour in from virtually every major retailer, many of us are in heavy-duty shopping mode. according to data from retailmenot, were set to spend an average of $803 from thursday through monday alone, with about half of these transactions done online.personally, ill probably be doing close to all of my holiday shopping online. its easier and more convenient for me on just about every level: im less tempted by impulse purchases so i can better stick to my budget, i can easily search coupon codes and cash back bonuses using browser extensions like wikibuy and ebates, and everything can get shipped directly to new york, where ill be spending christmas, instead of hauling it myself across the country in my cramped suitcase.retail data breaches are spiking, happening as often as once a weekdespite all its perks, shopping online has its potential hazards, the most serious of them being data breaches. in such instances, your bank account or credit card information can be exposed and compromised by hackers.data breaches in the retail sector occur much more than we might think.a recent report from thales esecurity found that in 2017, 75 percent of u.s retailers experienced a breach (up from 52 percent last year), while only 26 percent reported implementing encryption, which can help prevent breaches.id say at least once a week a company runs into this problem, says brian johnson, ceo of divvycloud, a policy-driven automation of cloud security and compliance company. but often companies dont even know its happening.why the surge of breaches? it often comes down to quite innocent mistakes on behalf of retailers using cloud storage to hold consumer data.retailers track so much more data about [consumer activity] to remain more competitive, and these cloud environments have a million different configuration options, says johnson. you can put a file up and tweak it so granularly [with the intention] or just one person on the other side of the world accessing it  but accidentally make it public.even when a breach is repaired, the data remains at riskthis is a mistake that johnson sees happening more and more, and unfortunately it cannot be undone. even if a company quickly realizes the error and seals off the data from the public, there are hacker systems perpetually on the prowl, ready to pounce the second they detect a possible leak.attackers can basically build bots to constantly be searching  literally just scanning  for that one mistake, says johnson. when that system finds it, it takes advantage of it. [past research] of mine shows that unsecured data is discovered [by hacker systems] as soon 20 minutes after it is exposed.its a frightening problem that johnson notes cant be solved from a consumer standpoint. companies need to be investing more in security software, a point also asserted in thales report.still, there are measures we can take to protect our data when making transactions online. weve rounded up a list of expert tips consumers should consider all year long.ditch debit cards. only shop with credit cards secure payment systems.i learned the hard way to never use my debit account for making purchases online. once upon a time, i gave my debit info to make a purchase on zappos. some three years after making any purchase on the site, i went to check my bank statements and saw hundreds of dollars had been spent at zappos. after all those years, someone (or some bot) hacked into that antiquated account and went to town.though my bank fortunately reimbursed me, i had to wait a couple of weeks and was without a debit card for about the same amount of time. now i only use paypal, and link to a single credit card for online shopping (which also helps me stay on budget, since all non-essential spending is done on that card).ian mcclarty, president &amp; ceo, phoenixnap, a global it services provider, recommends using applepay, androidpay or paypal.get a virtual one-time credit card number from your bankmclarty also recommends getting a one-time credit card number from your bank.this prevents your primary card from getting compromised, saving you a lot of hassle changing card numbers, moving recurring bills, etc. says mclarty.i had no idea such a thing existed until mclarty brought it up, and now im absolutely consulting my credit card company about this so i can more confidently go crazy on cyber monday.several card issuers offer virtual card numbers which add an additional layer of security for online purchases, keeping your actual credit card numbers safe from any retail data breaches, and especially useful for making purchases from web sites that users dont 100 percent trust, says brittney mayer, credit strategist at cardrates.com.use a card with a low limitusing a low limit credit card for online purchases thats not typically used for recurring payments is one way to protect yourself this holiday season, notes gates marshall, director, cyber services at compliancepoint. [if] the card is compromised, the extent of the damage will be lessened.bonus tip: this can also be helpful if youre working with a budget and want to ensure you dont overspend.avoid buying on public computersas much is it might be tempting to enjoy a hot latte and do all of your holiday shopping from your favorite coffee shop, avoid using public wi-fi while doing any shopping, advises tom kellermann, chief cybersecurity officer at carbon black. with public wi-fi anyone with some computer acumen can view what you are browsing and steal your personal information.use a vpnusing a virtual private network (vpn) enhances your privacy by masking your ip address, and essentially, throwing off prospective hackers to your location (you can be in california, for instance, but choose to appear to be in amsterdam). this is a tool that was traditionally used by corporations to add protection to sensitive data, but theyre now quite popular with consumers.using a vpn for shopping online will secure your connection and encrypt any personal data/financial info you are sharing with the retailer, which is especially important if youre shopping on the go and using public wifi on a smartphone or other device, says harold li, vice president at expressvpn. a vpn also hides your information from the internet service provider, restricting them from building a profile of your shopping habits.you can download vpns for free, but i recommend using one that you pay for annually (i use privateinternetaccess, which costs about $40 a year) so that you have access to customer service and security updates.update your softwareif youre looking to take your cyber self-defense to the next level this holiday shopping season, make updates to all software on your computer [and that youre] using the latest version of your browser (firefox is a great option), adds kellerman.practice good password hygienerichard bird, chief customer information officer at ping identity, reminds all consumers to practice good password hygiene. this means changing your passwords often and creating ones that cant be easily hacked.the best password is a series of logical words strung together that also encompass length; for example, horsesfencefieldgrass, says bird. these make for more complex passwords that are easy to remember, but more difficult to crack. stay away from using the names of your kids, spouse, pets and birthdates. you may use the same password for facebook and instagram, but dont use that same password for important accounts like your banks or email. make sure those important accounts have secure and unique passwords.holiday survival guidehow a spending to-do-list can help you save big on holiday shopping3 holiday savings hacks thatll save you hundreds3 ways to go on a holiday social media detoxwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

holiday weight gain might seem inevitable given that we often put a pause on our healthy habits until january. but having a strategy to avoid it could tip the scales in your favor  not just come the new year, but over the course of your life. heres why: on average, we pack on around 1 to 2 pounds during the holiday season and while that sounds like no big deal, studies suggest we dont take it off. ever. that means we enter each year a couple of pounds heavier  which can add up over the decades.and if you enter the holiday season already overweight, its likely youll gain even more, say researchers whove investigated the matter. but as they say, an ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure so here are some expert-backed pointers for avoiding the typical holiday weight gain.keep moving. when holiday activities ramp up and were gearing up for some out of office time, workouts are one of the first things to slip. but even if you dont have time for an hour-long spin class or your typical yoga session, put in what you can. exercise has a number of mental and physical benefits, and the science suggests it can counter some of the metabolic effects of overeating, even if it doesnt wash out all those extra calories youre consuming. resist the all-or-nothing mentality when it comes to workouts and do what you can when you can  even if thats just a quick routine in your living room. it may be especially helpful to enlist a friend. one study found that doing so led to increased activity, particularly if the workout partner provided encouragement and support. so grab a pal and go for a quick walk or make a weekly date to attend a group class. if you cant meet up in person, have a virtual check in to encourage each other to keep moving.be picky about splurges. chances are, you dont love all holiday food equally so consider which ones are worth it to you and which ones you can live without (or at least, live with just a little bit). in other words, its fine to have a food thrill or two so between the mashed potatoes, the stuffing, the pies, fruitcake, eggnog, gingerbread cookies and other holiday fare, but decide which ones deserve a spot on your plate and enjoy them mindfully. dont reserve an equal spot for the stuff that doesnt totally wow you. if the stuffing is your thing, have a spoonful, but if youre not all about apple pie, you might want to skip that or just have a bite or two.dont save your calories. its common to try to eat lightly in an effort to save calories for the holiday meal, but this plan can backfire quickly because when youre beyond hungry, its hard to stay in control of your food choices. (real talk: when you enter a party starving, do you make a bee line for the crudit? i dont!) instead of eating ultra-lightly or even fasting, try having a late but satisfying breakfast or brunch. since holiday meals tend to be on the early side, you may not need to eat on your normal schedule so a meaningful brunch might be enough to keep you content and energized until you hit the main affair. your non-holiday meal should include the winning combo of protein and fiber  the nutrient duo that helps tame hunger. some examples: a yogurt parfait or smoothie made with greek yogurt, berries and a portion of nuts or nut butter; a salad made with greens, leftover roasted veggies, canned tuna, and a drizzle of dressing; a grain bowl with the grain and veggie portions reversed (to boost your veggie intake) made with chicken or turkey. this format keeps things light but filling so you can stay in control of your holiday choices. its also a good structure for meals on your non-party days.drink wisely. alcohol can weaken your inhibitions so while you might have intended to skip the baked brie, a couple of drinks might spur you to change your mind. beyond that, alcohol can disrupt your sleep (which can impact your appetite and food choices), and leave you with a next day reminder (hello, hangover) that could also sway your food choices. (have you ever craved leafy greens while hungover?) when possible, stick with the recommended caps of one drink a day for women, two for men, and try to avoid sugary mix-ins, which can worsen the impact of alcohol, among other things.remember your hunger/fullness cues. just as its important not to enter a holiday affair starving, its also important to stay tuned to when youre feeling content. feeling content means youve satisfied your physical hunger and youve shown your taste buds some love. its not just about one or the other; you need to check both boxes to feel a state of contentment. lets assume your holiday food is doing its job of keeping your taste buds happy. now its your job to figure out when youve had enough to eat. its a good idea to check in with yourself about mid-way through your meal to make a mental note of how youre feeling. just thinking this through helps you connect to what youve eaten and assess whats left on your plate. and remember, theres no need to finish whats on your plate just because its there. when youve reached a point of contentment, show your body some respect by not pushing it past the point of fullness.bounce back. after each party, you have two choices: continue with the holiday fare or revert to your healthy habits. having one festive meal is no big deal, but having two, three, four and five can lead to weight gain. i always ask my clients this question: what do you do when your phone screen cracks handle it gently from then on or throw it across the room and cause more damage? inevitably, there will be some big meals and indulgent desserts during the holidays but theres no reason why there cant be healthy and lighter meals in between.limit the leftovers. okay, you dont have to leave the turkey and brussels sprouts alone, but you might want to skip the leftover stuffing, mashed potatoes, and pecan pie. this gets to the point of bouncing back. i repeat: one meal wont make much of a difference, but consistently splurging can really add up! a holiday meal is just that  one meal. enjoy it, but try to leave the leftovers alone.weigh yourself. its hard to notice when youve gained a pound or two, but your scale can pick up these small gains, which is why weight monitoring can be such an effective way to prevent weight gain. in one new study among more than 1,000 adults, daily weigh-ins over the course of a year led to small, but significant weight loss, even though participants werent instructed to lose weight. another study among college freshman found that routinely hopping on the scale wasnt linked with any difference in mood, body dissatisfaction or unhealthy weight control behaviors (like excessive exercise or food restriction). certainly, if the scale produces anxiety, makes you question your worth or causes any disturbances to your emotional well-being, its not the right tool for you. but if you can look at the numbers without judgment, the scale can provide useful feedback and help prevent weight gain.keep calm. the holidays can be a stressful time of year. the extra events  even if fun  can put a strain on your schedule that can be overwhelming, and family dynamics might also be challenging. research suggests that stress can lead to less healthy food choices, and it also impacts hormones that can prompt you to store belly fat. a mindfulness practice can help dial down the stress (and the hormones), and help reduce cravings, according to recent research. carve out a few minutes to do some deep breathing or a guided meditation to cope with holiday or family stress.get sufficient sleep. insufficient and poor quality sleep really take a toll on your metabolism and health. in one study, sleep deprivation resulted in changes in brain activity up your desire for unhealthy, high calorie foodthe type of fare that cause your clothes to feel tight. researchers speculate that lack of sleep dampens your motivation to stay on track while also amplifying your cravings, making it doubly difficult to eat well. know when to call it a night and aim for the recommended seven to nine hours of sleep each evening.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetask a nutritionist: should i eat the same foods every day?the best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the other day, i woke up to a text from my friend matthew digirolamo.matthew and i worked together for many years. hes a bright and creative writer and thinker, so i pay attention when he sends me a message.matthew said: i think we should create an inner peace corps. our world is in a mental and emotional health crisis and i feel like we need a corps of therapists, psychologists, psychiatrists, spiritual teachers, meditation coaches, etc. to be organized in a massive and coordinated volunteer effort. in times of tragedy and grief, they can help people process their pain, trauma, grief and stress, and help them connect to their core emotions in a healthy way.an inner peace corps. i just love this concept! maybe it could also be called an inner health corps or an inner service corps, but regardless of the name, i think this idea is brilliant and spot-on. i hope you agree.im going to work with matthew on this idea. im also going to pitch it to my states new governor, who says his role model is my dad (founder of the peace corps). yes, there are already so many wonderful organizations working around-the-clock to care for those who need support (and i hope youll reach out to one of them if you feel that you are in need right now). but, i think we could really benefit from coming together to build one go-to resource  a place where anyone who is hurting on the inside could quickly get support from someone else.we could definitely use a service corps like this in california right now, where so many people have been displaced due to the fires sweeping across our state. these families need resources and financial aid, but they also need emotional support at this time of grieving and loss. for them, i have no doubt that this upcoming holiday will be incredibly difficult.one thing they need is to know that they arent alone and that there are people out there who want to help. its up to all of us to let them know that were here for them.a national inner service corps like this could bring us together in so many ways. it could serve as a reminder that we are capable of serving one another  no matter our background, no matter our skillset. and, by answering that call of service, we would become more connected and more united by our shared humanity. we would also be reminded that we are one nation  one people  and that we all have it within us to help and heal another person. our collective suffering could become collective healing, and it could start today. we just have to step up and serve.i dont think that we have to wait for this idea to become something official. we can start this thanksgiving week as we gather around tables to share meals and give thanks. connect to those sitting at your table. listen to what they have to say. ask them how they are doing (as in, how are you really doing?). and, if you have room at your table, then reach out and invite others to join you. so many people are alone during the holidays and would really appreciate your invitation.thanksgiving is my favorite holiday, by far. it involves everything i love: family, food, gratitude and conversation. im going to throw this idea out to everyone who gathers at my table this thursday and ask them if they would be of service in the inner peace corps. im going to ask them to be of service to the people in their own lives by listening to a friend or reaching out to someone who may be lonely or in need.matthew is right, our country is in trouble. people are hurting. they are spending a record number of hours immersed in their virtual worlds because their real worlds dont feel safe, welcoming or loving.one of the best cures for our anxiety and our loneliness, though, is connection. its building community and keeping those you love close. sometimes all you need is dinner with someone who gets you, or who is willing to listen, to feel like everything is okay.if you know someone who might be alone, then invite them into your life. ask them to join you around your kitchen table. if you have family that you havent seen in awhile, then clear your schedule. im so grateful that my brother bobby and his family are making the effort to come to los angeles to be with me and my family for thanksgiving. im also blessed that i just got to spend a few days with my cousins sydney and caroline.moments with those i love, and whom i know love me, really fill me up. they make me feel grounded, safe and understood. they really serve me and help build up my inner life. im sure those moments do the same for you.so, make room for the people in your life. make time. see yourself as a member of the inner peace corps. its so important that we make the effort to gather  not just during the holidays, but during all times of the year.together, we can be of service to those who need some internal support. we are one big family, after all. we are the american family, and many of us are hurting and feeling isolated, lonely and scared.lets step up. lets serve one another. lets be friends. lets broaden our table and invite more people to gather with us. theres no better time than this week to begin.are you in?this essay first appeared in maria shrivers sunday paper, a free weekly newsletter offering news and views for a meaningful life. to sign up, click here.

thanksgiving is the official kickoff to the holiday season  and more than a month filled with cocktail parties and family dinners  and the dreaded holiday weight gain that comes with them. while heavy seasonal dishes and an abundance of cookie trays are surely to blame, the cocktail youre sipping on the side is adding some liquid calories to your tally that many people overlook.a cocktail can run you anywhere from 100 calories for a simple vodka-soda to over 300 calories for a holiday specialty like spiked eggnog. but it doesnt seem that the empty calories are deterring us from imbibing: thanksgiving, christmas and new years top the list for the highest grossing sales of wine and spirits. and according to the distilled spirits council of the united states, a quarter of the $49-billion-a-year distilled spirits industrys profits come from the month between thanksgiving and the new year.there are a few reasons it pays to be a little less jolly over the holidays. for one, calories from the extra drinks can really add up, especially if youre drinking sugary cocktails. plus, drinking lowers our inhibitions so while you might have had every intention to say no thank you to dessert, a few drinks in might weaken your resolve, says samantha cassetty, rd. on top of that, overdoing it can interfere with restorative sleep, which can then mess with your appetite-regulating hormones and drive cravings for less healthy food. plus, sugary cocktails tend to produce worse hangovers, and when was the last time you reached for a big salad with lean protein after a night of excessive drinking?while keeping our consumption in check is important, that doesnt mean you need to miss out on all the fun. cassetty reminds us that the daily recommended intake for alcohol caps women at one drink per day and men at two. when you do choose to imbibe, reach for a cocktail that is low in added sugars and make it festive with these easy tricks.tips for a healthier holiday sipwhen youre hitting the party circuit, dont forget that most drinks are customizable to include less simple syrup or flavored mix-ins. it never hurts to ask! says cassetty. finally, i always suggest holding off on cocktails until youre starting your main course. this helps slow down drinking and helps you stay within limits without being a total scrooge!if youre hosting a cocktail party or holiday dinner, getting creative with your ice cubes is one way to keep the evening festive while cutting back on added sugars.mixer cubes: making cocktail ice cubes keeps things festive and provides a punch of flavor so you can limit the sugary mix-ins, says cassetty. 100 percent fruit juice is naturally sweet  it doesnt contain any added sugar  so its a healthier alternative to traditional cocktail mixers. simply freeze the juice of your choice into ice cube trays; once frozen, drop it into a glass, add liquor of choice, and top with club soda for a light and refreshing sip.herbs and fruit: combining fresh fruit and herbs is another way to liven up your drink without ramping up your sugar intake, says cassetty. you can always drop them into the bottom of your glass and muddle them into your cocktail, but we prefer taking it a step further and freezing them into ice cubes. it adds a fun pop of color to your glass and will feel festive for your guests  and as they melt they infuse even more flavor into your drink! plus, its a great way to use up leftover herbs that would otherwise get tossed. simply rip herbs into small pieces and dice larger fruit like oranges or lemons (berries can remain whole), drop into an ice cube tray, fill to the top with water, and freeze.be the hostess with the mostessso watch out for added sugars and dont go overboard at the open bar at your office holiday party  got it. but the holidays are a time for gathering and celebrating with those we love, and theres nothing wrong with indulging a little on a festive sip. cassettys philosophy is always everything in moderation, and when we do indulge, she encourages us to make it worth every bite (or sip).if youd feel like you were really missing out by passing up on a specialty cocktail, then by all means, enjoy it, says cassetty. take a mindful approach to your drinks and your food and decide which ones are worth the splurge and which ones dont excite you. chances are, you wont love and enjoy every indulgence equally so rank the ones that stand out as 110 percent worth it and skip the rest. if a cocktail makes the cut, connect with the festive feelings and love every sip!cassetty reminds us that one meal or sugary drink will never unravel consistently healthy eating habits. but over the holidays, the trouble is that one meal leads into leftovers leads into a cookie swap and so on, so its a good idea to be intentional about which splurges matter to you and then truly savor the full experience, she says.to make the most of the drinks you do choose to enjoy  and seriously impress your guests  use these super simple tricks to elevate your cocktails (and your tablescape) without adding much prep time.keep drinks cold with a frozen cranberry stir stick. to make, simply thread berries onto a skewer and freeze for an hour (or until frozen solid). place into a champagne flute or rocks glass and pour in your beverage of choice. (this is also a fun way to jazz up sparkling water!)add a pop of flavor with glass rimmers. crushed candy cane is a fun way to add a festive twist to holiday beverages (and a way to enjoy the flavor of the seasonal treat without eating a whole cane!). we also love mixing herbs like rosemary or thyme into salt rimmers for drinks like greyhounds or margaritas. simply combine salt and herbs in a blender and pulse until combined. then rim your glass with a lemon or lime wedge and dip into the rimmer to coat the egde of the glass.wow your guests with an ornamentini. we got this idea from inspired by charm, and its a showstopper. the best part? it looks so festive that guests will assume you spent way more time creating them than you actually did. (it will be our little secret that it only took five minutes of your time). to make: mix up your favorite cocktail (we suggest a red hue to keep it festive!). remove the metal topper from a 3-inch glass ornament ball. using a measuring cup with a pour spout or a funnel, pour the cocktail into the ornament. replace the topper back on the ornament securely. then, place a handful of cranberries and a sprig of rosemary in the base of a martini glass, and nestle the ornament inside. set an ornamentini at each place setting  your guests will love the festive touch, and it will be a fun conversation starter (that is sure to get the party started) as they open the ornaments and pour their drinks into the glass!holiday survival guidehealthier sides and desserts for your holiday tablehow to get a good nights sleep when youre away from home3 holiday savings hacks thatll save you hundreds3 ways to go on a holiday social media detoxhow to get the most out of black friday without overspendingwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as a vocabulary fanatic, this is an exciting time of year for me, because oxford english dictionary (oed) has released its top word of the year, along with a shortlist of finalists.these are words that, as jeffrey sherwood, senior assistant editor, u.s. dictionaries, oxford university press usa explains, arent necessarily new, but have picked up steam over the course of the year and are trending in both search activity on the oxford site, as well as on social media and the internet at large.oxfords process of adding new words is based on a huge database that scrolls the internet and pulls what people are saying, says sherwood. we evaluate computationally how frequently words are being used and what they are being used with to see what is shifting and emerging.\"the word of 2018 is toxic, which sherwood says had a search increase of 45 percent on the site this year. arguably, this is a far more fascinating word than 2017s winner youthquake, chiefly because toxic reflects how single words can expand and change in meaning over time.toxic has evolved from being solely literal to figurative, tootoxic originated in the mid 1600s as the latin toxicus, a derivative of toxicum, which comes from the greek toxikn, meaning, bow poison.the word went form being something very literal until the 20th century. then around [the emergence of] toxic waste, our consciousness was raised at the importance of the word as it related to our environment, explains sherwood.according to oxfords research, were using toxic to describe everything from chemicals and gas to masculinity and relationships.this shift allowed us to go even further with \"toxic\" by using it figuratively and metaphorically.in the 80s, we started to see a number of books on self-help and workplace dynamics where toxic began to behave like a buzzword, says sherwood. soon after we saw toxic relationships emerge, but by then it was already in the water [as a word with a figurative meaning] and now its reached a level of total saturation.according to oxfords research, were using toxic to describe everything from chemicals and gas to masculinity and relationships. weve embraced the word as a kind of blanket descriptor for anything deeply but often invisibly harmful.were drawn to toxic because its feels more unnatural than poisonbut why toxic and not poisonous, i asked john black, phd, chair, department of english and co-director of medieval studies at moravian college. he thinks it has to do largely with the association weve developed of toxins as being unnatural, invasive and often undetectable until some damage is done.these are connotations that have fed its role in pop psychology.the word toxic, unlike poisonous describes something almost monstrous and alien, says black. poison has more of an association with nature  a rattlesnake or poison ivy, but toxic cannot be distinguished so easily, and it has an insidious edge of mystery. its scarier that poisonous in that its more inorganic. we dont generally say, poisonous pharmaceuticals, for instance. we use it more to describe artificiality, something that doesnt belong in nature.a toxic year where gaslight and incel also made the listoeds shortlist of finalists for top words of the year include words that have meanings ranging from semi-dark, like orbiting, to downright distressing, like gaslighting and incel. when i first saw the list i thought, wow, what a grim year, if these were the trendiest words.carrie gillon, a former linguistics and english professor and now the co-host of the vocal fries, a podcast about linguistic discrimination, suggests that this first impression is fairly spot on.2018 has been a rough year, with the [wildfires], the proud boys trying to start fights in major cities, the [rise of mass shootings]  and thats just in the us, says gillon. in britain, there have been similar events, including the nerve agent attack in salisbury. the ipcc report on global warming also highlighted the risks of air pollution. feels like things are just getting harder and harder.but these trends may offer a glimmer of hopedespite the devastating tragedies and the politically fraught environment causing the spike in our usage of these words, theres good reason to be hopeful, or even, as essence cohen fields, a licensed professional counselor, says very excited.she sees the surge of interest in these words not as a dismal wrap-up to a bleak year, but as a sign that were starting to acknowledge persistent problems in a more straightforward way  possibly as the first step in creating a dialogue aimed at solving them.this is very exciting because the next step could be the creation of legislation that prohibits toxic behavior.\" she points to stricter laws around workplace or other types of harassment and \"even redefining abuse so that ongoing adverse events at the hands of someone in a position of dominance are no longer normalized.additionally, our growing usage of these words, which cohen fields says she often hears in sessions with her clients, shows a willingness to engage and attempt to accept that others have been affected by behavior that may have once been considered acceptable.\"2018 hasnt been the merriest year for us as a society, as these words reveal, but they show that at least were not ignoring or hiding from the challenges. weve brought them into the light of conversation.\"raise your words, not your voice. it is rain that grows flowers, not thunder, wrote rumi, the 13th-century poet and mystic.the rain is falling as we raise our words. perhaps on next years oxford list, well see some flowers.more from bettertry this simple trick to unburden yourself from an over-stuffed schedulehow to train your brain to accept change, according to neurosciencethis daily gratitude routine can train your brain to be happierhow to transform your anxious thoughts into productive actionswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

we get it: the idea of starting a job in addition to your day job sounds sort of daunting. but with the right tools and tips from pros who launched successful side hustles of their own, you might be surprised at how quickly you start earning money  and having fun  outside your regular 9 to 5.even if you dont want to leave your job, a side hustle is an awesome way to make extra money, use your talent in the world, and hedge against an uncertain job market, says susie moore, who started her side hustle as a life coach and writer while working as a sales director at a fortune 500 company. plus, pursuing what you love outside of work can help you feel more fulfilled and motivated at your day job, moore says.below, moore and two other entrepreneurs who side hustled their way to success share the must-have books that helped them build their side gigs into fully-fledged businesses.whether youre a marketing executive who wants to do stand-up comedy shows on weekends, an accountant with a calling to be a spiritual life coach, or a lawyer working on a historical fiction novel, these reads will equip you with the wisdom and inspiration you need to make your dream a reality.big magic: creative living beyond fear, by elizabeth gilbert, $13, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/big-magic-creative-living-beyond/dp/1594634726/this is the book that gave me permission to be creative and to honor my day job while working on my side hustle, says krista williams, who had a marketing job by day while she created a lifestyle blog and podcast by night. shes now fully self-employed as a blogger and host of the almost 30 podcast. this book is a beautiful discussion of some of the less glamorous realities of living a creative life  like the struggle to produce quality work and fears of inadequacy or comparison. i love how gilbert weaves in her own experience, which creates an inspiring and relatable narrative.what if it does work out? by susie moore, $11, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/what-if-does-work-out-ebook/dp/b075jr56mhin this book, moore offers inspiring stories, down-to-earth guidance, and practical advice from other notable side hustlers, such as the founders of spanx and mindbodygreen. her tips are wise and practical, yet shes also provides just the right amount of tough love you need to get your idea off the ground and achieve your biggest goals.the seven spiritual laws of success, by deepak chopra, $11, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/seven-spiritual-laws-success-fulfillment/dp/1878424114/author and speaker chopra shares an alternative perspective on achieving success, writing about the unseen forces that affect the flow of money in our lives. it might sound a little woo-woo, but as moore explains, success is all about the flow of give and take. this book shows you how to manage the flow of abundance that wants to reach you.rocket fuel: the one essential combination that will get you more of what you want from your business, by gino wickman and mark c. winters, $15, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/rocket-fuel-essential-combination-business/dp/1942952317/ready to get back to basics? this practical guide will help turn your ideas into a business. if you need help working on your business instead of in your business, this book is a must, says julie solomon, a publicist turned brand consultant and host of the influencer podcast. this book really helped me figure out the overall structure of my team, and most importantly, how i could make sure to stay in the visionary role of my business.the artists way, by julia cameron, $12, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/artists-way-25th-anniversary/dp/0143129252/if you are interested in any creative business path, the artists way really is a rite of passage, solomon says. the morning pages practice is a life changer. first published 25 years ago, this bestselling book takes readers through a 12-week program that helps them discover their creativity, and overcome limiting beliefs and fears in the process.  tools of titans by tim ferriss, $20, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/tools-titans-billionaires-world-class-performers/dp/1328683788/if youre crunched for time, you can flip open this book every so often to get inspired by the habits and routines of billionaires, icons, and world-class performers. as a huge fan of the tim ferriss show podcast, this book is great to pick up every so often and open to any page to get a dose of inspiration, williams says. i try to focus on two or three at a time and really apply them or try them in my life so its not overwhelming.money: master the game, by tony robbins, $16, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/money-master-game-financial-freedom/dp/1476757860/another pick from moore, this book shares a seven-step plan for reaching financial freedom, based on research and interviews with prominent investors such as john bogle, warren buffett, and paul tudor jones. its so easy to make money mistakes and not know it, moore says. in this book, tony sets you up to be truly financially free.lucky bitch: a guide for exceptional women to create outrageous success, by denise duffield-thomas, $11, https://www.amazon.com/lucky-bitch-exceptional-outrageous-success/dp/1788171322/you cant make money with a blocked, stuck, \"this is so hard\" type of attitude, moore says. denise gets you unstuck and fast  youll be ready to receive more in no time! duffield-thomas is a self-made millionaire who went from being broke and miserable at her office job to traveling the world and earning six figures, so she clearly knows a thing or two about getting lucky.dollars flow to me easily, by richard dotts, $10, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/dollars-flow-easily-richard-dotts/dp/1532736231/bestselling author and spiritual explorer richard dotts takes readers on a journey to change their deepest perceptions about money as they read. this is great for anyone who has issues around abundance and money, solomon says. it clears out the money blocks and allows you to align with revenue goals that you dream of achieving.earth is hiring by peta kelly, $18, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/earth-hiring-millennials-anyone-gives/dp/1945390271/consider this a guidebook for conscious entrepreneurs. it speaks to your soul, williams says. peta is a powerhouse, and in this book she helps us to wake up and take care of the earth, ourselves, and others. with a sense of humor, kelly reminds readers not to take everything so seriously  and living joyfully is part of the point.  

when it comes to easy-access workouts, walking and running definitely top the list. youll burn calories and improve your heart health  without the need for any fancy equipment, expensive gym memberships, or any sort of 30-day plan. all you need is your own body and a pair of shoes.but of course, theres a catch. that pair of shoes is super important for making the most out of your walk, run, or hike. without a proper pair, youll risk injury, discomfort, and pain; while the right ones can make you feel like youre flying.unfortunately, it can be a goldilocks-esque challenge to find just the right pair. take it from katie dunlop, certified trainer and creator of love sweat fitness, whos tried hundreds of different shoes. some are super cute, but dont offer any real support to your poor feet ,while others are completely functional, but not exactly stylish, she says.to help you narrow down your decision, we asked avid runners and fitness professionals to tell us the shoes they swear by. read on for 14 top picks.for runningnike pegasus 35, starting at $70, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/nike-pegasus-running-thunder-crimson-phantom/dp/b075zyshfb   cameron yuen, certified strength and conditioning specialist and senior physical therapist at bespoke treatments, picks this pair as his go-to running shoe. when you run, you want to minimize the amount of time your foot spends on the ground  otherwise, the contact time slows you down and puts more stress on the soft tissues, he explains. since the pegasus is a bit more responsive, you can help propel yourself a bit quicker off the ground.asics dynaflyte 3.0, $140, asicshttps://www.asics.com/us/en-us/dynaflyte-3-lite-show/p/0020002040.001if youre racking up the miles for a half-marathon or other endurance event, check these out.i own about 80 pairs of sneakers, and choose this one almost every day for runs between three and 13 miles, says emily abbate, a running coach and writer who recently ran the new york marathon. at 7.58 ounces, its lightweight but still packs enough cushionusing asics flytefoam technologyfor me to rack up the mileage without foot pain.new balance 1400v6, $90, new balancehttps://www.newbalance.com/pd/1400v6/w1400-v6.html#color=white_with_pigment_and_vivid%20coralhave a need for speed? this shoe makes me feel faster than fast, abbate says. super light at only 6 ounces, the 1400v6 has the responsiveness i crave when im trying to pick up the pace. plus, a locked-in feel courtesy of a structured upper with support cage for a secure mid foot.saucony zealot iso 3, $70 (originally $130), dswhttps://www.dsw.com/en/us/product/saucony-zealot-iso-3-performance-running-shoe---womens/433426this sneaker is not only extremely comfortable and affordable, but they also look great, says wes meserve, the run coordinator at life time athletic burlington. i need a shoe that is neutral with cushion, a small drop, looks great, and is affordable. this shoe has all of that. he also points to sauconys isofit technology, which basically morphs to your foot for a sock-like feel.saucony womens ride iso running shoe, $120, amazon https://www.amazon.com/saucony-womens-running-shoes-purple/dp/b078pp1scl/dunlops favorite is another saucony style. with great ankle support and plenty of cushioning, this is a solid pair for long distance runs, she says. they feel like youre running on a cloud, but theyre still very lightweight. plus, the isofit and new formfit technologies helps the shoe adapt its shape based on your running style.brooks ghost 11, $120, zapposhttps://www.zappos.com/p/brooks-ghost-11-grey-blue-silver/product/9046315/color/44763this shoe has been around forever  and for good reason, according to meserve. the ghost is great for new runners as well as long runs, he says. in this latest edition, brooks has used a refreshed foam midsole which heel-strikers love, since the transition from heel to toe is quicker with solid protection. another great feature of this shoe is the traction  i have never slipped once in the rain or snow! meserve adds.for walkingnike cortez trainers, starting at $48, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/nike-womens-classic-cortez-leather/dp/b01dok5m2s/nike cortez have always been my favorite walking around shoe  its casual, but still stylish, mesere says. they have been around forever, and i have been wearing them ever since i was about 15 years old. theyre not only durable, affordable, and last forever, but they come in many different color ways, so you can choose whatever colors suit your style.   new balance womens 365v1 walking shoe, $39-$133, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/new-balance-womens-wa365v1-walking/dp/with hundreds of five-star reviews on amazon, these breathable shoes were clearly made for walking. one customer reported that she comfortably walked 15 to 20 miles the first time she wore them, adding that they defied the laws of physics. my feet have never felt lighter with shoes on, she said.if you love a walking workout, check out this round up of the best, most supportive walking shoes on the market.allbirds mens wool runners, $95, allbirdsmens: https://www.allbirds.com/products/mens-wool-runnerswomens: https://www.allbirds.com/products/womens-wool-runnersfor a versatile shoe that looks good and feels good on your foot, check out allbirds wool runners. but dont let the name fool you. these kicks are best suited for walking  or really anything, from running errands to going to work or even going out. theyre made from merino sheep wool which makes them very comfortable  you dont even need socks! meserve says. another great thing is that they do not get too hot in the summer or too cold in the winter; they are just right in all conditions.  for hiking and trail runninghoka challenger atr 4, starting at $140, amazonhttps://www.amazon.com/hoka-one-challenger-atr-running/dp/b079813ydltrail running requires shoes with more support, stability, traction, and protection, as most injuries are the result of missing a step due to varied terrain, yuen says. these shoes provide all of the above, and are still relatively lightweight. it also has enough cushioning to transition into a longer hike or walk combined with trail running, he adds.(find the womens version here.)altra superior 3.5, $110, zapposhttps://www.zappos.com/p/altra-footwear-superior-3-5-dark-blue/product/8977680/color/790trail running  especially at altitude  isnt easy. luckily, these shoes make it feel way easier than it should, says locke hughes, a utah-based ace-certified trainer, health coach, and avid hiker. these are super lightweight and flexible kicks with a zero drop, designed help improve natural running and walking form, and toe splay. note: if youre new to zero-drop footwear, build up by wearing these on shorter runs and hikes, then gradually build up to regular mileage.keen targhee iii mid waterproof, $135, zapposhttps://www.zappos.com/p/keen-targhee-ii-mid-waterproof-goat-crown-blue/product/8715663/color/661769this is a great pair of hiking boots for everyday hikers since they are lightweight, waterproof, and extremely breathable, meserve says. the toe protection in the front of the shoe helps keep your toes happy even on the longest hikes. these boots also have a new internal support mechanism that provides great arch support, as well as excellent traction, he adds. the final selling point? with built-in odor control, theyre less likely to get smelly after a long hike.vasque breeze ii gtx, $180, zapposhttps://www.zappos.com/p/vasque-breeze-iii-gtx-gargoyle-stone-blue/product/8813299/color/665742vasque has built upon their years of footwear experience to bring this boot to the next level in terms of comfort and performance. i hiked 20 miles over two days in these boots, and i didnt need to break them in at all  they were insanely comfortable and supportive over the two-day trek, hughes notes. the boots gore-tex waterproof membrane guarantees protection against wet or muddy trails, while also letting your feet breathe.merrell moab mid waterproof, $130, zapposhttps://www.zappos.com/p/merrell-moab-2-mid-waterproof-granite/product/8807339/color/5667sure, moab is a town in southern utah. but according to merrell, moab also means mother of all boots. and this boot definitely lives up to its name. it provides an insole thats contoured to your foot, as well as heel cushioning to absorb shock and provide stability. this cushioning helps to limit the pressure and any pain after hiking in the heel area, meserve notes. i am also a huge of the vibram soles, which this boot has.

in the mid-1980s, william anderson lost 140 pounds in 18 months. the psychotherapist has kept the weight off ever since, but still eats whatever he wants, and looks forward to thanksgiving.im going to have turkey and dressing and gravy and pumpkin pie, and all of those things, but it will be in the portions that i have become habituated to, anderson tells nbc news better.anderson, who authored the popular weight loss book the anderson method, says he was obese from childhood until his mid-30s. he says finally losing weight after many years of struggle took more than willpower.i started to look at it as a behavioral problem, rather than a body problem or a diet problem, he says, and started to apply what we know works in terms of being able to change behavior.heres his advice on how to change long-term eating habits.before you diet, count the amount of calories you are currently eatingmost people only count calories when they are dieting, then go back to eating normal, says anderson. but he says this way of thinking is backwards.if you are going to lose weight and keep it off, anderson says, you need to count the number of calories you currently eat.knowing how many calories you currently consider normal will deter you from falling back on old habits, he explains.if the normal that youre thinking of getting back to is the behavior that makes people overweightwhat youre doing is losing weight and planning to regain it again, he says. the main work that we need to do is not losing the weight  it is developing a way of living where you will not gain the weight.forget about a number on the scaleall too often, people who want to lose weight are hyper fixated on reaching a certain number on the scale, according to the author. if thats your goal, he says, you will likely change your eating habits and exercise routines until you achieve that number, then go back to your old ways.losing weight is nice, says anderson. its a great gift, but the main thing that people need to do is learn how to live in a way where they will not gain weight.anderson says there are no fancy gimmicks to keeping a healthy weight: all you have to understand is the amount of calories you need to maintain it and stay in that range. its also important to be realistic, he says. if you enjoy a mostly sedentary lifestyle, how much you eat needs to reflect that.we need to look at what is the metabolic rate that i will have for the rest of my life for the way i want to live, anderson explains.you can use this simple online calculator to understand how many calories you need to eat given your regular activity levels.eat what you enjoya recent study finds that people who maintain a low-carb diet after weight loss are likely to stay slim. while healthy eating is important, the behavioral therapist says its important to still enjoy foods you crave.his first rule of thumb is to eat what you enjoy, but in smaller portions.ive learned to eat what i like in the portions that keep me from gaining weight, and i enjoy it more than the eating i used to do when i was overweight, he says.this eat-what-you-like rule goes against most conventional wisdom, he says, because people often believe they can give up certain foods for a stretch and then go back to their normal eating habits.this idea that im going to do something that i hate to lose this weight creates an aversion to doing it, anderson explains.instead, he explains, you need to reduce the amount you eat while still eating what you like.to create behavior, you have to associate reward with it, anderson says. and if you do that on a daily basis, youre going to get addicted to healthy habits, and thats what we need to do.time your mealsthe number-one strategy anderson employs to maintain a healthy weight is meal timing. he says he only eats at specific times during the day and fasts between meals.related: see how this woman lost 65 lbs through intermittent fasting. on weekends, anderson allows himself to eat more, but maintains a balanced caloric intake throughout the week. its not a matter of just going crazy on the weekend, he warns.losing 140 lbs and keeping it off has been life changing for the 69-year-old.to be able to solve that problem and feel good about myself and about my future, i mean, its just the best thing thats ever happened in my life, anderson says.more weight-loss success storieshow a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

monica h. evans, 44, lived in her home in paradise, california for 19 years. she and her husband, a veteran who relies on his pension as income, were happy there with their three children and nine pets, and they had a great deal on rent  just $412 a month.i never wanted to leave paradise, evans tells nbc news better through tears. i didnt think id ever have to. but now everything is gone.evans and her family (pets included) were able to escape the deadly fires, but lost their home. right now, theyre staying with a friend in orland  in a single room  and have until the end of the week before they have to find other lodgings  a transition that evans breaks into sobs at the mere mention of, because they have nowhere to go.with shelters filling up and no insurance payout coming, some residents face long-term displacementthere are thousands of us with nowhere to go, she says. the shelters are all full, and the nearest hotels are hours away, and we cant afford them anyway, says evans. theyre gouging the prices, and we have so many pets. rentals are going for $2k a month for two-bedroom apartments.all those who have lost their homes in the fires have been dealt a terrible blow, but lower income renters such as evans, who did not have renters insurance (as of 2016 research by the insurance information institute, only 41 percent of renters did), are faced with a particularly difficult recovery ahead. with no payout from insurance and no land they can rebuild on, many have turned to parking lots for shelter, waiting for help.the [chico] walmart is filled with tents. everyone is just struggling to get through the day. we keep hearing on the news that we have to wait  wait on fema, wait for guidance  and we keep hearing from people who arent [affected] that itll all be okay. but they just dont get it. our whole town is gone. our lives have been destroyed and nobody has any answers for us.the housing crisis is severe, with larry olmstead, president and ceo of united way of northern california highlighting that the homelessness in butte county and shasta county was a challenging problem to solve even even before the fires.homelessness is a hot button issue in both communities, olmstead says. so you start with a fairly slim housing stock, particularly in chico to begin with, and now [tens of thousands more] people are homeless on top of that. there is no easy way to absorb these people in this housing structure. were at roughly 80k homes destroyed.homes are lost and jobs may be, toosome people who lived and worked in paradise, didnt just lose their homes  they may have also lost their jobs.heather milstred, 29, also a former resident of paradise is staying with a family friend in shasta lake who has generously opened her home to her, her boyfriend, their two young daughters, along with other displaced family members and their pets.im a job coach for mentally disabled adults with california vocations, and my boss has been amazing, milstred says. but our location was leveled. theyre renting out a temporary space, but the [future] is unclear. my [uncle] jason works at a save mart and the building is standing but the town is gone. my [aunt] robin works at curves, and the building is there, too, but how do you work in a town where everything else is gone and everyone has left?if youre displaced, register with fema and look for these evacuation centersmichael r. hart, a spokesperson for fema says that the organization is urging people who are trying to get back on their feet to take one of two steps: if they have insurance, file a claim. if they are uninsured or under-insured, set up a case.if youre a victim and can make it to a fema recovery center, go there, but know that you can also set up a case by calling 800-621-3362 of visiting online disasterassistance.gov.hart says that there are still evacuation centers accepting people, while others are at capacity. note that some welcome pets (including large animals as well). see the butte county, los angeles county and ventura county web sites for up-to-date information on evacuation centers. what we can do now: cash donations and gift cardsmilstred and evans emphasize their gratitude for donations of clothing, but right now they have nowhere to store anything non-essential. getting stuff without a home to put it in, is only adding to the anxiousness of being homeless. hart adds that clothing donations also create a logistics/manpower issue on the ground.money is really what would help. we need to put down a deposit on a new place once we find one says milstred. gift cards we can hold on to and use to buy things like towels and blankets when we [get settled] are also helpful.donate to these organizations who are offering immediate assistancefema, a government entity, does not accept donations, but they are working closely with non-profits that are relying on donations. hart urges people who want to donate to make sure that whichever charity you choose has been approved by national voluntary organizations active in disaster (voad).heres a list of some organizations working closely with survivors:california fire foundation. through its save program, the california fire foundation is distributing $250 cash gift cards for those who have lost their homes. anyone who has suffered a loss of more than 25 percent of their home can get a gift card for $250 per household, says carroll willis, communications director at the california fire foundation and the california professional firefighters.united way (greater los angeles) and united way of northern california. olmstead says that it is working both with immediate financial aid for survivors and on long-term recovery efforts.california community foundation, assisting with long-term recovery efforts and people who have been displaced and/or unemployed because of the fires. this organization also supports mental health services.north valley community foundation, which is offering grocery and other gift cards available at the chico posse foundation.ventura county community foundation allows survivors to sign up and apply for funds.airbnb has an open homes program through which you can donate a temporary living space. this is a very practical way to help if you have a spare room nearby or other property near the impacted areas.other ways to help: volunteer and donate bloodvolunteering in the affected areas is another great way to help.anthony c. tornetta, spokesperson for the red cross, reminds us that the red cross is 90-percent volunteer based.right now best thing is to go on the red cross site and sign up to volunteer, says tornetta. whatever time you can commit, whether its a week or eight hours  we will welcome your support. please sign up and call first, as we cant necessarily stop in the middle of an operation if you just show up.tornetta also encourages those wanting to give assistance to donate blood, if able.we have had to cancel blood drives because of wildfires so we can use help there, he says. blood is always needed, no matter what is going on.

weve all heard that patience is a virtue and that good things come to those who wait, but our increasingly fast-paced world seems to always be telling us otherwise.were living in the busiest time of history of humanity and we often do not have enough time to get everything done that we need to, daniel levine, trends expert, tells nbc news better. the promise of technology was that it would handle our work for us and let us hang out more and relax, but the opposite has happened. rather than helping us slow down, technology is forcing us to move even faster.consequently, many of us (myself included) are eager to practice and learn patience  a trait that, as any infant or toddler will show you  we are not born with.to break from the chaos, tune into traditional japanese wisdomlevine has noted that in a response to the rapidly changing and demanding environment were living in, theres been a counter-trend against the barrage of tasks and technology that we are inundated with everyday. patience is the other side of the coin of speed and were looking more to [integrate] that into our lives.levine notes a spike of interest in ancient wisdom and practices that originated in japan, one of the ancestral homes of zen buddhism. weve compiled a roundup of some of these teachings and explored how they can help us exercise patience  and ultimately, restore our connection with the fleeting nature of life.wabi-sabi: embrace the perfectly imperfectaccepting and embracing transience and imperfection is key to wabi-sabi. often we see this view applied to aesthetics, and one that can be found in some japanese pottery, particularly the cups used in the japanese tea ceremony, notes sayaka fujii, director of japan national tourism organization.we take the object as it is  the cracks, the age, the rot, says fujii. we accept it and try to see it as beautiful and as a reminder that nothing lasts. this philosophy reminds us that our bodies and all materials are transient.the term, which fujii notes is quite difficult to translate into english, embodies two separate philosophies: wabi meaning loneliness (internally) and sabi, meaning withered, rustic (externally), she says. i think wabi is the heart/sense to feel the beauty of sabi, and when they are integrated, wabi-sabi is to feel the beauty in imperfection. everything is transformable, impermanent, getting old and never lasts forever.patience plays strongly into this merged viewpoint notes kino macgregor, an international yoga teacher and author who is half-japanese and spent much of her childhood in japan, because it takes a while to reach this point of acceptance in ourselves.this is especially true when applying wabi-sabi to our bodies, which we may be constantly judging for perceived aesthetic flaws. wabi-sabi is about embracing the perfectly imperfect whole, says mcgregor. so, if you have a misshapen nose but it works perfectly, wabi-sabi would be embracing that and saying, i am perfectly imperfect. this isnt a one-and-done deal, but a daily process where you have to see the beauty in your crooked nose. [visualizing] yourself from that paradigm takes a lot of patience as the world around you may be telling you a different story.kintsugi: fill the cracks with gold. your scars are beautiful.closely tied to wabi-sabi, kintsugi is, as tiffany ayuda explained in her piece on the subject, the japanese art of putting broken pottery pieces back together with gold  built on the idea that in embracing flaws and imperfections, you can create an even stronger, more beautiful piece of art.kintsugi means golden joinery, says macgregor, and its a concept that we can apply not only to our broken dishes, but to any healing process or imperfection in our bodies.this concept is so important to take to heart when we look at our bodies, says macgregor. we have scars, wounds and other body parts that might be considered cracked or broken by the standards of big brands and mainstream beauty. but if we can fill those cracks with the golden embrace of love, then we can learn to celebrate ourselves in totality. rather than our flaws being something to hide and disguise, how amazing would it be if we learned to truly love everything about ourselves?this practice is one that cultivates patience because it defies our reliance on instant gratification and quick fixes.our bodies are broken pieces of pottery that need to be embraced rather than say, put a mask on and lose 10 years in 5 minutes, says macgregor. embrace the patience required for the healing process in any cracked or broken body part, community part or physical object. the pot gets filled in with gold and is then more valuable. be patient with all the places you are cracked and find the material that will fill it. that message of patience and healing is one that we really need right now both as individuals and as a country.shankankan: the beauty in taking your timethe japanese philosophy, shankankan, is perhaps the one on this list that most emphatically speaks to the virtue of patience, meaning loosely, theres beauty in taking your time.shankankan originates from an old zen story about a young pupil who wanted to learn so fast, and asked the master monk over and over how to get enlightened, says macgregor.  the master monk said to him, basically, be calm, dont hurry, take your time. that is perfect patience.most everyone can, on some level, identify with this eager young pupil, especially in our fast-paced society and wants answers and solutions immediately.in our american culture we want immediacy, says macgregor. patience is the understanding that this is a long journey and you cant rush the process, particularly in the zen meditation tradition of spiritual ripening.meditation is a great way to practice shankankan, but you may also want to integrate this philosophy into your beauty regimen.taking time, instead of rushing, is very important for skincare, says koko hayashi, an anti-aging expert from japan who teaches facial yoga. the japanese believe that quick results dont last, but slow results last for a long time. botox gives you instant results, but if we can control our facial muscles to cause less wrinkles and sagging, its much better, as its natural and long lasting. waking up sleeping facial muscles, relaxing over-working facial muscles and fixing bad facial expressions habits fix the root cause of aging symptoms in the face. to the japanese, [getting to] the fundamental problem is more important than just covering up with quick fixes.ikigai: find your true purpose (beyond your career)what is my true purpose? this is probably one of the toughest questions we can ask ourselves, at least, it is if youre taking the way of ikigai, which serves as an intersection between your values, cares and strengths and what the world needs.i think the western idea of purpose tends to be very focused on what your profession and livelihood are and how to make money, says macgregor. ikigai is quite different. its about finding what you love and what the world needs. that requires patience in the sense that it wont be revealed to you in one moment. youll need space and time for those answers.consistent meditation is integral to discovering or connecting with ones ikigai.this purpose has to organically arise in moments of deep reflection, macgregor adds. we need to be rooted in emptiness to find [ikigai]. a classic zen story [that speaks to ikigai] tells of a student who goes to a zen master and says, tell me exactly what my purpose is, where i should go, and how i can find peace. the zen master says, youve come to me with a cup full of mud. go empty your cup and then come back so i can pour fresh water in.we all have to empty our cups  our fears, opinions and conditioning  to find our true purpose, a process that requires extensive meditation and possibly, quite a lot of hardship.at what point do we find the wisdom? only after we have suffered a lot and return to that state of emptiness, says macgregor.we all need a refresher on these aged pearls of wisdommacgregor underscores that while all these wisdoms stem from japan, one shouldnt assume that modern japanese populations are practicing them to a tee.a lot of these japanese philosophies that get fetishized in the western world are those that everyday japanese people need reminding of, too, says macgregor. i think its important to recognize that there are certain cultural elements that being in a japanese family will put in your consciousness, but that still, these principles are ancient zen philosophies and that not everyone in japan follows them. that would be like the japanese believing that because many americans worship jesus, theyre all mirroring his wisdoms exactly. thats far from the case. these are ancient philosophies that everyone can [benefit] from, no matter where you are, and i think many people in japan could use the reminder, too.more from bettertry this simple trick to unburden yourself from an over-stuffed schedulei said no to unpaid emotional labor by saying goodbye to this wordwhy the 20/10 method can change the way you clean your housethis daily gratitude routine can train your brain to be happierwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

name: karla pankowage: 42residence: bruno, minnesotajob: emergency medical technicianhome life: lives with her partner, elizabeth millard, on a 28-acre hobby farmpeak weight: 300-plus pounds (she stopped weighing herself at that point.)current weight: 200 poundsgoal weight: under 185 pounds, to reach a powerlifting weight classheight: 5 feet 9 incheskarla pankows struggle with her weight gain began in college, when she gained what she calls the freshman 30. in her 20s she battled hypothyroidism, which sapped her energy and endurance. that plus her poor diet led to even more excess pounds.she worked in the pharmaceutical industry, and as her career progressed her travel schedule and stress levels increased. i tried every diet, shake, pill and pyramid program to lose the weight, but it never worked, she says.her eating habits werent helping. i could easily drink a 12-pack of mountain dew a day on the road. even though i was holding down a professional job and presenting myself in a professional way, i was living on mountain dew to get from point a to point b. i was relying on takeout and fast food. i made all the wrong choices. i was like a 5-year-old in a candy store, she says.the highest weight i know of was 300. at a certain point you get so sad about that, you dont check in. its a matter of denial. youre so used to seeing yourself being heavy  i didnt realize how big i was, she adds.by her 30s her weight played a factor in a range of health problems: fatty liver, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, hypothyroidism, arthritis, hernias, prediabetes, connective tissue disease, inflammation, joint problems, and migraines. a slew of doctors treated her, but she says none of them ever mentioned that her weight was part of the problem.i was in and out of doctors offices constantly, but i never had a physician talk to me about my weight, she says. i think for 25 years i kept waiting for doctors to tell me i was too fat. because i never heard it i thought i was fine  i got used to my own skin. when i look back its alarming. just being diagnosed with problems was not enough. being told i was super-fat might have had a different impact.as her 40th birthday approach, pankow wanted to make a change. i didnt want to have another year this fat, where i couldnt tie my shoes and i was always out of breath, she says.health problems push her to make changesin late september 2015 pankow needed physical therapy to treat her joint problems  and she discovered that she enjoyed the sessions. physical therapy taught me that, even though i was depressed and sad about hurting, movement felt good, she says.encouraged, the next month she decided to try one small change in her diet  she replaced mountain dew with water. quitting caffeine made her crazy sick, she says, slammed with migraines. its like overcoming any kind of addiction. but i stayed hydrated and kept plugging on. she saw her weight drop 10 to 15 pounds just from that tweak.when quitting soda led to weight loss she looked for other changes she could make. to break her sugar habit, she switched to a paleo diet. for the first time in 20-some years i didnt count calories or weigh food. i just decided to take out the crap and eat real food and see what happened. once i did that consistently the weight came off. its really simple  its not easy, but its simple, she says. when pankow got rid of processed, fast, and sugar-based foods her migraines, joint problems, and bloating all disappeared.at one point, pankow transitioned to an anti-inflammatory diet, which some people with joint problems find helpful. but cutting out foods like tomatoes and peppers felt too restrictive. she moved to a keto/low-carb diet. healthy fats, moderate protein, and low carbs felt natural to me, she says.she acknowledges that sometimes she gets off track. ill eat cupcakes  those things happen. but if i veer off track the bloat comes back, my skin gets itchy, and i get migraines. i dont need to go down this track.at one point she tested herself, reverting to her old diet, but soon found out that was a mistake. i really have to stay away from sugar. you dont reach 300 pounds without having a binge problem. it was alarming how quickly i started putting on weight, she says. she recognizes that while sweet or carby foods might fit into her eating plan, they trigger cravings.committing to exerciseas pankow drove home from her last physical therapy appointment, in early january 2016, she decided she needed to maintain her new habit of movement. she stopped at a local gym, anytime fitness, where personal trainer heather clark showed her around.pankow says, it was hard being a big, overweight girl walking in with this perky blonde trainer. it was a little intimidating. but i took the plunge.clark built a workout program for pankow where they worked together for two days a week and pankow exercised on her own on three or four more times weekly. clark says, at first we just did teeny things, like a half of a squat or trying to do pushups on her knees. we started with little baby steps. there were a lot of areas where she was weak, but she gained strength.pankow started with a lot of cardio and high-intensity interval training, and got more interested in weight-lifting as she shed pounds. as the weight came off it built my confidence. i felt capable of more. i started researching and learning things i could do instead of just being on the treadmill, she says. i switched to weights and got into powerlifting and it changed my whole life. she documents her progress on instagram.clark credits pankows attitude with her weight-loss success. she was fed up with her lifestyle and fed up with being overweight. she was so ready for a change. not everybody who walks in the door is ready  some people say they are ready but its too much work. but she was so goal-oriented, she saw results almost immediately, she says.pankow now judges her health more on how she feels and what she is able to do rather than her weight. in the past, she couldnt walk a 5k. now she challenges herself to run one monthly. that first year i participated in a 5k every month whether i was 280 pounds or 200 pounds. it kept me accountable and kept my cardio training on board. that first year i could do things i was never able to do, taking those baby steps.better health, better lifein 2016, pankow dropped 100 pounds and saw her health improve drastically. in physical exams all my markers are in good shape. my fatty liver is reversed, and i no longer have prediabetes. my life has done a 180. i feel well and have endurance and strength.pankows improved health inspired her to pursue a lifelong dream  becoming a firefighter. to pass the physical test, she would go to the gym and practice with an air tank on, so she could master the breathing techniques she would need in a fire. of all the people tested, she had the lowest percentage of body fat and the best lung capacity. that felt really good. it was validating to know i was able to do something i never thought possible from a health standpoint, she says.she liked being a firefighter so much she became an emt. she now works on an ambulance service and is studying to be a paramedic. she says, it took me 20 years to find the sweet spot, but i feel good at 42. its the life i always wanted, but i never imagined it was possible.im able to achieve things that at 300 pounds i could not have imagined, she says. when i say my life changed, it literally changed. it went from corporate life, hating everything i was doing, to resetting entirely and doing much more physical work. now im following my passions, not my paychecks.karlas typical meals:breakfast: duck or chicken eggs from her farm, avocado, lots of waterlunch: a big salad loaded with protein, healthy fats, and lots of veggies for volumesupper: salmon, tuna, or halibut, or chicken burgers with lettuce wraps and sweet potato friespankow keeps her eating to a six- to eight-hour window most days. its natural and easy when youre eating good fat, moderate protein, and a lot of volume and diversity in vegetables to keep the eating window smaller and maintain calories. i dont feel the need to graze all day, she says.

in todays busy world, making time for what matters can feel like one more impossible item on our to-do list. but according to productivity experts john zeratsky and jake knapp, it doesnt have to be.the co-authors say their new book make time: how to focus on what matters every day outlines how we can overcome the many obstacles that prevent us from doing the things we really need to focus on.its all about concrete ways to rethink some of the default behaviors that have crept into 21st century life that have to do with our smart phones and our calendars and our corporate cultures that leave us with this feeling that time is sort of slipping away from us, zeratsky tells nbc news better.i think one of the biggest themes of the book is that theres a default in our culture, in our work culture, and our every day society of guilt, adds knapp  a lot of the tools that are out there are just designed to nag us  to make us feel more guilty.the old coworkers used to work at gv, formerly google ventures. there, the men contrived a number of techniques to help startup companies be more productive, which they outlined in their first book sprint: how to solve big problems and test ideas in just five days.the duo say make time applies a lot of the same tactics for individuals. they say the book outlines four basic steps that, if repeated every day, can boost your productivity dramatically over time.step 1: the highlightthe first step is the most important, according to the authors. each morning, figure out what you want to be the highlight of your day.even if its just one thing, even if its something im doing already, what is the one thing i should have my peek attention on? asks zeratsky.everything else in your day is secondary to the highlight, zeratsky says, which may require you to bulldoze, or clear your calendar so you can focus on that one thing.it has a powerful effect on what happens for folks, knapp says, and its a nice, simple way to reframe everything, and it is kind of the heart of how make time works.step #2: lasernow that you know what your highlight is, you need to be able to focus on it distraction free.the next thing after achieving that highlight, is the moment when youre in it  thats laser, says zeratsky. you want your attention to be laser-focused.depending on what works best for you, this step could include eliminating or logging out of distracting apps on your phone, or turning off the news.what matters is that you are excited about whatever youre working on, says knapp.and thats actually the biggest difference from the other ways weve heard people talk about time management or attention management, he says, is this idea of really being excited, and bringing joy and enthusiasm to that moment.step #3: energizeenergy is the battery pack that makes everything else run, so its important to take care of your physical health, the authors say. be sure to make time to exercise and eat well so your energy stays elevated throughout the day, says knapp.we just think its important to also keep in mind that the body is whole thing, its not just the brain, he says.zeratsky adds, its important we think to acknowledge that so much of what makes this thing possible  actually being able to experience that moment in your day and turn it into a highlight  is whether you have the physical and mental energy to give to it.step #4: reflectyour day is over. now its time to reflect on what youve accomplished.this is a really important part of what we put together, says zeratsky, because we think that if people can take a little bit of time every day to reflect on the day, on what went well, what they wanted to make time for, whether that worked, whether they had the time, and then to make some tweaks and try it again differently the next day, they can start to set up a really healthy process and cycle of getting better and better about how they spend their time over time.making time for whats important isnt simply about achieving results, says knapp  its about how you feel as a result.do i feel satisfied? he asks. do i feel like even maybe a sense of relief, because that was something urgent, and i took care of it?  i didnt put it off for another day. or in the best of cases, do i feel a sense of joy that that was really a wonderful thing?the process isnt about achieving a dramatic, overnight transformation, zeratsky explains. its really about getting into this day-to-day cycle of identifying a priority, making time for it, and then reflecting on how it went, he says.more tips for a better day9 things to do this morning to make your whole day more productive12 tips to master your kids morning routine and eliminate stressthe productivity hack that allowed me to accomplish more in less time15 protein-packed breakfasts that can help curb cravingswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

black friday is one of the most historic shopping holidays, tracing back to the inception of macys thanksgiving day parade in 1924. in the mid-60s, the day after thanksgiving was given its famous name by the philadelphia police department to describe the chaos of shoppers creating traffic jams around stores downtown.surely, a lot has changed since then, and with the boom of ecommerce and the influx of other mega shopping holidays, black friday as a one-day brick-and-mortar extravaganza has lost some steam. now, black friday exists both online and offline, and heralds the official beginning of the holiday shopping season (if you didnt already stock up on amazon prime day, that is). cyber monday happens just a few days later, and last year out-performed black friday, bringing in nearly $6.6 billion compared to black fridays $5 billion (a number that also considers buys made on thanksgiving day itself).black friday may not be the be-all and end-all blowout it once was, but its still a significant time for savings  and with that, spending.shoppers plan to spend $803, which is $60 more than last year, sara skirboll, resident shopping and trends expert at retailmenot tells nbc news better. as black friday is transforming from a singular shopping day to more of a weekend shopping event, [our] data shows that 78 percent shopping throughout the weekend, and 33 percent of those shoppers will be getting a head start by shopping the night of thanksgiving, spending an average of $191.what awesome sales can we expect on black friday and which are the dud deals we may want to avoid? try these tips to navigate the holiday weekend without getting overwhelmed.make a list into two sections: for me and for othersholiday shopping can be stressful and expensive if you dont have a strategy in place, notes chelsea hudson, consumer shopping expert at topcashback.com. according to a recent survey by topcashback.com, 60 percent of americans report holiday shopping is stressful and overwhelming. to ensure you have a smooth shopping experience: create and calculate a budget and then split purchases into two categories: presents [for others] and household purchases such as entertaining costs. the more prepared you are for black friday and the holiday shopping season, the better.by breaking the list into two sections, you can more aptly stay on budget, and also narrow down specifics to meet all your holiday shopping goals. additionally, making a list helps you dodge impulse buys, which can cost americans over $5,000 a year.act early (even before black friday) on trendy toysthough big box retailers started pushing out holiday deals earlier this month, generally you want to wait until black friday to maximize savings  unless youre shopping for something hotly in demand, like certain toys.based on shopping and purchasing habits over the past several years, youll want to snag top toys by black friday, thanks to supply and demand, says hudson.for a look at what some of the most wanted toys are this holiday season, check out amazons top 100 toys list. you can see which items are featuring discounts, and search according to which sport the strongest savings.when searching online, remember to use a browser extension for cashback or automatic application of coupon codes. i recommend ebates, honey, wikibuy, topcashback and retailmenotgenie.take advantage of deals on electronics, travel, winter apparel and kitchen goodsper black friday tradition, retailers will be delivering doorbuster deals. typically rolled out on black friday morning (though we also see them slide in on thanksgiving day), these can be the trickiest sales to navigate because they all seem so worthy, but undoubtedly there will be some mediocre offerings.the key is to know what to look for.there are definitely some categories that will be more discounted than others, says skirboll. the best things to buy on black friday include electronics, appliances, winter wear and time-specific travel.retailers are still keeping details of doorbuster deals top secret, but if history is any indicator, we can expect the following type of sales, according to skirboll:best buy: up to 75 percent off black friday doorbusterswalmart: up to 70 percent off black friday deals on electronics, toys, home and moretarget: 20 percent off coupon with $50 purchase (on black friday)macys: 20 percent off select items + free shipping on $49 purchasehudson adds that we can also expect to see appetizing deals on kitchen appliances.whether youre looking to upgrade your kitchen or simply need a new blender, black friday is the time to shop all kitchen appliances, says hudson, adding that big-ticket items wont be the only steals to jump on.retailers such as kohls, macys and jcpenney, for example, will feature kitchen appliances like slow cookers, mixers and coffee makers for $10 or less.beware of lackluster tech products on saleretailers will likely be pushing savings on tech, but be cautious and read up before making a (discounted) splurge here.im always wary of tech deals, specifically laptops, tablets and tvs, says krista fabregas, retail/ecommerce analyst at fit small business. stores will promote loss-leader savings [in this category]. consumers need to look at and compare the specs of discounted goods to others on sale, and even those at regular price. this will help ensure theyre good values  not lower-end models that look like a great deal, but really arent.most likely, youll find tech that is strong in some areas and weak in others, so just read up on the item before buying it. it may be just what youre looking for.an older model on deep discount, say, with a slightly slower processor (or lower resolution) but higher memory and storage, can be the better deal than a new release, says fabregas.pass on phonescell phones are typically a false economy, says hudson. most of the time, you wont receive a discounted phone, but you may receive a bonus on incentive such as a gift card to entice users to upgrade to a newer phone. the deepest discounts on phones are found when the latest generation retires and a new one is ready for pre-order.amazon will slash prices on its own brandsamazon holds its own black friday-like event with prime day in july, but the mammoth company is not about to miss out on another goldmine. consumers can expect an ongoing festival of amazon sales around black friday and cyber monday.prime day is usually a pretty good indicator of what to expect from amazon during the holiday season, notes cooper smith, director, amazon iq research at gartner l2. this year we saw discounts span a wider range of categories with the most deals occurring in home, electronics and sports &amp; outdoors. we also expect deep discounts in the toys category as amazon looks to fill the void left by toys r us.smith adds that amazons exclusive offerings will be featured prominently across the site in an effort to raise awareness for its more than 130 private label brands  which sell everything from mattresses to activewear.well see a range of discounts across amazons portfolio of internet-connected alexa devices, with the newest models such as the echo look being discounted the most at up to 50 percent off, said smith.pro-tips for staying sane and saving doughto bring more structure (and sanity) to the black friday shopping mayhem, fabregas offers the following pro-tips for consumers:set your budget as early as possible (like, now).get sneak peaks. search online sneak-peek black friday and cyber monday deals now  theyre out there already, just google black friday 2018 sneak peek. compare sneak-peek deals to your list and note where you find the best deals, and the sale dates and times.pre-purchase if you can. amazon has a pre-sale list that you can create to trigger the purchase when the item is put on sale.plan your in-store trips. note any big-ticket items that state limited quantity  these will go fast.make a small bonus budget, if able. if your budget allows, set aside an amount that youre comfortable spending if you find [an unexpected] deal that you just cant resist.black friday deals you can snag right nowbetter editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.ancestry dna ancestry dna kit for $59 (save $20)amazon buy three echo dots for $69.97 (save $80)ring alarm system 3-piece bundle for $188.98 (save $80)walmartkitchenaid deluxe 4.5 quart stand mixer for $219 (save $100)best buybeats by dre head phones for $199.00 (save $150)macys6-quart instant pot for $99.99 (save $30)target lg 55\" 4k ultra hd hdr smart oled tv for $1599.00 (save $700)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

no matter what your health goals are, we can all agree on one thing: the holidays arent a time to compromise on deliciousness! to prove that healthy holiday food  is anything but drab, ive rounded up some better-for-you recipes  from starters to sides to desserts  thatll impress your guests throughout the season. youll definitely want to add these great-tasting recipes to your holiday lineup.simple brussels spout saladshaved brussels sprouts are easy to find in supermarkets, and theyre the base of this elegant, easy-to-assemble salad. if you have trouble timing your holiday meals, this is one dish that can be prepared up to two days in advance. dried cranberries are a festive addition, and sliced almonds add more nutrition and crunch to the mix. after the holidays, feel free to sub other dried fruits and nuts.butternut squash apple cheddar soupstarting a holiday (or any meal) with soup is a strategy that might prevent overdoing it over the next few courses. studies suggest that soup reduces hunger and promotes feelings of fullness, thereby curbing food intake later on. this soup has all the flavors of the holidays (butternut squash, apples), married with sharp cheddar. plain greek yogurt keeps things creamy (and packs in some bonus protein) and helps keep the cheese in check. of course, theres no need to pass on this once the holidays are over; save the recipe so you can cozy up to a bowl all winter long.vegan, gluten-free green bean casserolethis dish is a thanksgiving classic, but with updated ingredients you and your guests will appreciate. one notable healthy replacement: gluten-free alternative ground flax seeds thicken the sauce without needing flour. it also happens to supply some fiber. one tradition that stays: fried onions (because, well, its green bean casserole after all!), though the recipe uses much less than the standard version.greek yogurt mashed potatoeseven your most discerning guests are sure to love this healthier version of mashed potatoes. starting with a base of yukon gold potatoes makes them extra creamy since this spud has an unmatched luxurious texture. other swaps include nonfat plain greek yogurt for full fat sour cream and nonfat milk for heavy cream. though these mashed potatoes still call for butter (thank goodness!), to keep with the healthy theme, the recipe uses less than others. fresh herbs are added to boost the flavor and the holiday flair.the best cornbread stuffing everthe healthfulness of this dish come down to the whole food ingredient list. the base is homemade, gluten-free cornbread  a step thats worth the effort for a holiday meal. but if you want to save time, you could always sub with another cornbread or gluten free bread. once made, the bread is combined with fresh herbs, chopped walnuts, and dried cranberries. the various flavors and textures play well together and make this a holiday dish youll remember long after you finish your last bite.healthy cauliflower latkes for chanukahyou already know that cauliflower is the master of disguise! here, it stands in for potatoes to make latkes. this swap cuts the carbs and calories, but the recipe also suggests serving the latkes with unsweetened applesauce instead of the traditional sweetened variety and plain 0% greek yogurt in place of sour cream. plus, rather than deep frying the latkes, theyre sauted in a non-stick skillet coated with a spritz of olive oil. taken together, these recipe swaps will save you carbs, calories and sugar, leaving a little room for another chanukah tradition: jelly donuts!slow cooker gingerbread apple pie crumblewith a blend of gingerbread spices, apples, and a crispy, crumble topping, this dessert will be at home at thanksgiving and christmas. since its made in a slow cooker, you can multi-task, letting it cook (while the aroma fills your kitchen), as youre making other holiday dishes. since the crumble is made with ultra-healthy ground flaxseed, whole grain oats and pecans, and because the dish is low in added sugars, you could also serve it for a deliciously low-fuss holiday brunch. as a dessert, youll probably want to add a spoonful of whipped cream or vanilla ice cream, but if youre going the brunch route, add a spoonful of greek yogurt instead. if you skip the toppings or use dairy free alternatives, this crumble is both vegan and gluten free.healthy baked pearsthis is one holiday dessert that wont put you in a sugar coma! the blend of spices and the nut-free topping offer the flavor fix of a fruit crumble or pie minus a few hundred calories and the after-dessert bloat  even with the optional whipped topping or spoonful of ice cream. ps, did i mention its healthy, too?gingerbread tahini banana breadthe aroma of gingerbread spices lends holiday cred, while the white whole wheat flour keeps this baked quick bread in the healthy lane. tahini is a spread (similar to other nut and seed butters) made from ground sesame seeds. its a culinary upgrade that supplies protein and fiber, as well as important vitamins and minerals, such as magnesium. its so delicious, in addition to using it as an optional drizzle, you might want to consider using it as a spread for this warm, wonderful bread, and youll certainly find many other uses for it (say, as a dip for apples) throughout the year.more better-for-you recipes13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonighthealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for youfall recipes to add to your menu right nowwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the expression time flies, originating from the latin phrase \"tempus fugit,\" is one we all find ourselves saying or thinking, even when we arent having fun (as the extended expression goes).the flight of time can be so fast it can feel, upon reflection, like our life is passing us by. whether were scrolling through facebook looking at the photos of old friends, dropping our children off at school and feeling moved by how big theyre getting or celebrating our own birthday, we may stop and say, \"whered the time go?\"its a powerful, sobering revelation.but it wasnt like this when we were children, was it? i remember how each year, broken into school semesters, holidays and summer vacations, seemed to pass slowly, at a kind of diligent down tempo pace so that every experience, no matter how mundane, could be fully processed.this perception of time moving at a leisurely pace in childhood, and then quickening as we become adults, is a common experience, neuroscientists note.the perception of time is relative, but age and memory play major rolesmost [adults] feel that time elapsed slowly in their earlier days, but then speeds up later in life,\" says santosh kesari, md, phd, neurologist, neuro-oncologist, neuroscientist and chair of the department of translational neurosciences and neurotherapeutics at the john wayne cancer institute at providence saint johns health center.this perception may be due to a few factors, kesari points out, firstly that when were children, a year of life amounts to much more time of existence, percentage-wise.for a 10-year-old, one year is 10 percent of their lives, kesari says. for a 60-year-old, one year is less than two percent of their lives.additionally, when we are children, we are constantly being introduced to new things and ideas that leave lasting impressions on our memories.we gauge time by memorable events and fewer new things occur as we age to remember, making it seem like childhood lasted longer, kesari says.children may perceive time as its happening more slowly than adultsits important to note that the type of time-perception weve been discussing thus far is retrospective perception. in other words, were talking about remembered time, rather than time as we are experiencing it in, well, real time.but there is evidence that our perception of time as we are experiencing it is also slower when we are very young children.childrens working memory, attention and executive function are all undergoing development at the neural circuit level, says patricia costello, phd, a neuroscientist and program director at walden university. their neural transmission is in effect physically slower compared to adults. this in turn affects how they perceive the passage of time. by the time we are adults, our time circuits are done wiring and we have learned from experience how to correctly encode the passage of time.one method of testing that researchers have used to determine this discrepancy in time perception between children and adults is temporal bisection tasking. in this method, researchers may have participants listen to a series of tones and compare them in terms of duration.ive done these lab studies [with bisection tasking], says costello. you first hear a short tone thats about a fraction of a second. then you hear comparison tones. youre supposed to respond after the short and long tone and say is if the next tone is more like the short or more like the long one and then [the researchers] measure how accurate you were in your perception.it has been found that the youngest participants (typically 5 years of age, when they are old enough to understand the task) have the least accuracy in time perception in these tasks, and tend to hear those short tones as longer than they actually are.the theory is that we get better over time, says costello. children who are 8 to 10 years old get fairly accurate at it. it has to do with processing speed and how well they pay attention, but also that when a child, the brain is still developing. their neurons dont have all their myelin  the insulator on the neuron.this lag in real-time time perception doesnt span beyond early childhood, nor does it play a role in retrospective time-perception, and ultimately, doesnt explain that subjective experience we have in adulthood where we feel like time passed more slowly when we were young. that specific sensation is more likely attributed to the fact that children have had less time on the planet, such that a year feels weightier, as well as the fact that we arent forming as many new memories once we reach adulthood.life passing you by? consider the holiday paradoxbut theres a way to change this  to an extent. surely, we cant slow time itself down (that would require defying the laws of physics), but we can do things to pace ourselves and create more lasting impressions of times past.costello draws attention to the holiday paradox, also called the vacation paradox, a theory of time-perception coined by psychology writer claudia hammond in her book time warped: unlocking the mysteries of time perception.this theory unpacks the subjective experience of how time flies when youre having an enjoyable, new experience like a vacation, but then later, in retrospection, it feels like it lasted longer than it really did.we could spend a great deal of time (however you perceive it) discussing this theory, but heres a helpful key takeaway: a novel experience may feel like its flying by, but youll have a deeper impression of that time and likely have a bundle of unique memories tied to it that will also give stretch and substance to that time gone by.create new, novel experiences that engage your brainit doesnt have to be a vacation or a visit to a foreign country to elongate your sense of the past. it can be as simple as consistently trying something new, and/or of continuously learning.how can we stop that feeling of things going too fast, of missing out on our own lives? it comes back to learning new things, says costello. are you learning a new skill? are you cooking something different? introducing novelty into your life when you can will make the memories stand out and stretch time in a way.go new places. meet new people. be spontaneous when you can be. these are all exercises that costello champions for enhancing your sensitivity to the passage of time. its also a system that mirrors childhood to an extent.children have routine and mundane moments, too, but theyre always learning something new, she says.at the end of each day, recall your time as vividly as possiblekesari suggests another potential retrospective-time enhancing hack: remember your day as vividly as possible at the end of it.i suspect that if you spend half an hour every night really reflecting on what has happened that day, it may ingrain them to make them more unique, says kesari. memory is short-lived and many of us just arent that engaged in the everyday things were doing, so if you slow down and engage more in the moment, and look back on everything deeply later, you may find time lasting longer.more in the your brain on serieswhat happens to your brain when you go on a dietthis is your brain on prayer and meditationhow to train your brain to be more optimisticyour weird dreams actually make a lot of sense (according to neuroscience and psychology)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

im a pretty reserved guy. i dress in typical ways, with no desire to stand out. i do my job, then drive home to my wife and kid. im the last person youd expect to suddenly show up one day with shocking, neon blue hair.but i had no choice. id made a promise.i oversee a team of sales representatives at outreach, a tech company based in seattle. thanks to new technologies, weve found that we can hire people straight out of college or from other fields, and get them trained quickly.in june, i had a team of five brand new recruits who had never been in tech sales. we also had an ambitious goal: to beat all previous first-month sales records.this required some kind of special incentive. but i had no idea how to wrangle budgets to get prizes like trips or tickets. i needed to come up with something free, but still powerful enough to motivate them.an idea popped into my mind, so i just went with it. i told them that if we beat the record, id dye my hair blue  and not just for a day. permanent dye to last until it grew out.my team laughed, and asked whether i was serious. when i said yes, their eyes lit up.they ended up blasting the previous record out of the water. and while there are many reasons  they worked hard and we built a great process  they made clear that getting me to look like an anime character or stanley tucci from the hunger games was part of what drove them.humor relieves stress and builds teamsthere are a few reasons this idea worked. first, injecting some humor and playfulness into the atmosphere of a high-stress job can be very helpful.sales in particular can be very tough, since it means facing constant rejection. its one of the careers with high rates of depression. when things got tough for our team during that first month, someone would crack a joke about my future look. wed laugh, and the team would push forward.the willingness to do silly things can also help build a sense of teamwork, that were all in this together. richard branson discussed this in the book \"the mind of the ceo\", saying that as the top executive, youve got to be the first into the swimming pool with your clothes on or whatever, the first to let your hair down, first to make a fool out of yourself on the stage singing karaoke, to break the ice so that everybody else knows how far they can go to have fun.risking embarrassment can inspiretheres also something more to it. i wasnt just offering something fun, i was offering to humiliate myself in a way that would last months.the desire to see people willing to make fools of themselves for a good cause is also the thinking behind the viral ice bucket challenge that helped raise money for als research.that speaks to a philosophy ive developed about work in general. ive found that many people are willing to work hard, but few are willing to risk personal embarrassment to achieve a goal. when someone is willing, other people admire that as a form of courage. and they want to see it play out.this helps explain why a united way chapter and signupgenius have recommended fundraiser incentives like get the boss or embarrass the boss. options include dunking them in a tank of water, getting them to shave their head or doing an old fashioned pie-in-the-face. the desire to see people willing to make fools of themselves for a good cause is also the thinking behind the viral ice bucket challenge that helped raise money for als research.pulling throughwhen our sales results came in, our team celebrated. no one brought up my hair, and some of them werent sure whether i would do it.but that weekend, i found a stylist who spent hours putting together a concoction. he bleached my brown hair bright white to get rid of any color, then used a unique mixture to make it the most obnoxious, bright blue he could muster. it took hours and cost $250.heading to work that monday, i was self-conscious and very nervous. but i decided to own it. everyone who saw me laughed  but also loved it.i also posted about it on linkedin. soon, my new photo and post explaining the hair got thousands of views. its a kind of attention i wasnt used to getting, but have found it to be a good opportunity to share ideas. in fact, ive decided to keep my hair crazy blue for the time being.i wear it as a badge of honor. as a sign to my employees that i will pull through for them, no matter what, if they give it their all. and as a message to everyone: it isnt easy to make a fool of yourself. but if you can cross that line, one very few people are willing to cross, there is a lot of opportunity on the other side.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

for the first time ever, i am hosting my family for thanksgiving. and not only that, i am participating in a time-honored tradition of the newly engaged: bringing the families together. yes, for the first time ever, my parents and brother will be meeting my fiances mother and sister over thanksgiving dinner  in the tiny two-bedroom apartment where we live in new york city.as thrilled as i am to be hosting (and therefore not to have to deal with one of the busiest travel days of the year), ill be honest: im a little stressed out. not because i think our families wont get along   theyre all great people, it should be swell!  but because ive never cooked a holiday meal, let alone one featuring a meeting of future in-laws. and as much as i know they will all love the meal regardless, im starting to feel immense pressure to make sure it goes perfectly. im doing everything i can to make sure my home looks the part, that we plan ahead for the food and that everything goes as smoothly as possible the day of the feast.but, of course, i also dont want to go overboard when it comes to thanksgiving day spending. we have seven total people to feed, and on top of food and drink costs, weve already found ourselves stopping at homegoods to check out the tablecloth and festive placemat situation. in order to plan ahead as much as possible, i decided to reach out to a few cooking and finance experts to get the best possible advice on budgeting for the holiday. heres what they had to say:1. think like a chef to plan how much meat you needthis seems like a no-brainer, but its something i could definitely miscalculate: planning the right amount of food for the people youre hosting.rick camac, the institute of culinary educations dean of restaurant &amp; hospitality management, says to be sure to consider people, portions, and yield, especially when it comes to getting your turkey:yield means what useable product you get after the bird is cooked down and ready to serve.[assume you need] 8 ounces of protein per person. this is a lot, but who doesnt overeat for thanksgiving, and who doesnt want leftovers? if youre serving more than one protein (such as a ham and a turkey) obviously cut numbers in half, meaning 4 ounces of turkey and 4 ounces of ham...assume a 50% yield on average. youll likely get a tad better, but this is a good estimate. so, for 10 people, being served 8 ounces each, you need 5 lbs. of yield. that would call for a 10-lb. turkey. personally, id order 12 lbs. to be sure but, thats me.buying too much turkey isnt the end of the world, especially if you can use the leftovers to make something delicious (my favorite is turning it into a shepherds pie). but over-buying also means you have a bigger chance of letting your turkey go to waste  and losing money because of it. use camacs yield rule to make sure you get the right amount.2. dont supply every single side dishof course, as the host, you probably wont be simply buying a turkey. but cherie lowe, a personal finance blogger at queen of free and author of the book slaying the debt dragon, says the one of the keys to saving money on thanksgiving is to avoid the side dish trap.determining a thanksgiving menu plan is so difficult because there is oh-so-much to choose from, she says. even when you do determine the dishes youll be having, hitting the grocery store is still difficult because you remember how many other things you wish you were fixing. tough love: you shouldnt be eating or buying all of those foods.but how do you go about deciding what to make? if you are dining with extended family, have everyone bring a side, lowe says. if you are just feeding your immediate family, focus in on one side dish each family member loves. dont bite off more than you can chew financially or physically.while you may feel pressure to please everyone  as i certainly do  try to let that feeling go as much as possible. plus, taking care of sides potluck-style means everyone has a better chance of eating their favorite sides, and you get to save money on food costs.of course, if youre like me and have family coming in from several states away, throwing a potluck thanksgiving is easier said than done. but dont try to bite off more than you can (literally) chew.3. plan ahead for wednesdays meals, toohave you ever resorted to chinese takeout the night before thanksgiving? i certainly have  and now i know im definitely not alone.i once read that pizza deliveries are the highest on the night before thanksgiving, says lowe. to avoid becoming a part of that expensive statistic, she suggests building wednesday nights dinner into your thanksgiving meal plan. even if youll be too busy prepping to cook anything for that night, you can still avoid an expensive delivery meal.buy a deli pizza from the grocery store and throw it in the oven while you chop foods, lowe says. or make sandwiches with chips. keep it simple and if at all possible light. just dont let that wednesday evening meal sneak up on you as you prepare for the big day and save the room in your tummy for the big feast.4. order online as early as possiblecamac suggests buying online, and buying early, is the best way to get the best price. you should be able to order a good quality, organic turkey for $5-6.00 per pound, he says. and to keep costs down, he suggests to stick to simple sides that please a crowd  and stretch your dollar. potatoes are ridiculously cheap, and string beans and salad reasonably priced as well. and, potatoes are more filler! of course, add one or two pies for dessert. all in, you can feed 10 people less than $10 per person.personally, ill probably stick with the online-ordering option at whole foods, which my family has done for years to great success. if you want to do a little cost comparison beforehand, poke around the internet for testimonials on mail-order turkeys.5. plan ahead for that one last thingfinally, even if youve never hosted your own thanksgiving, you probably know youll forget something. to avoid this, lowe suggests doing your actual shopping as early as you can.if at all possible, she says, purchase your goods days before you plan on cooking. youll want to give items like your turkey plenty of time to dethaw. plus, you do not want to be out in the hot mess that is last minute thanksgiving shoppers. as the days draw nearer, the crowds grow thicker.and dont forget: grocery stores take full advantage of last-minute holiday shoppers. running out at the last minute will up your stress but more than likely cause more impulse buys, too, lowe reminds us. holiday items are marketed front and center to grab your attention and dollars from your bank account. the odds are, youll also be more likely to visit a higher priced grocery or convenience store (due to hours) and end up paying more and buying more, too.if theres one thing ive taken away from all of this, its to plan ahead for everything. with these tips, im hopeful my first time hosting family for thanksgiving will go wonderfully  and im sure yours will, too.holiday survival guideholiday shopping hacks that can save you hundredsholiday hangover: how to bounce back from the food, booze and emotional stressa 60-second breathing exercise for when your family gets on your last nervewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

were trying a new video advice series around everyday dilemmas: friendship, grieving, dating, awkward situations in general, and more. but instead of your typical advice column, we want you to ask the questions and answer them. hear directly from people around the country who are going through the same thing you are.so, heres the first question:send your advice as a video message to crowdsourced@nbcuni.com or share your thoughts as a written message in the form below.

so youre throwing a dinner party. it seemed like such a great idea when you thought of it: friends, food, drinks, what could go wrong? then you started thinking about what this will actually entail and yikes! how bad would it be to just order pizza delivered or call it off altogether? before you enter full panic mode, take a breath and read on for some tips from experienced pros. toby amidor, ms, rd, and wsj best-selling cookbook author; food writer phoebe lapin, a gluten free chef and author of the wellness project; and james beard award winning chef and author virginia willis, talked with nbc news better to share their secrets to successful  and as low-stress as is humanly possible  dinner parties. were taking a three-part approach in this series, looking at planning, preparing for, and finally navigating the big night. a dinner party today is a different thing than even a few years ago. a hosts role has evolved, amidor noted. before, the host was there to cook, but in todays world they need to be able to organize and even send out the menu in advance. read on for tips on making it through a dinner party when dietary restrictions, allergies, and other challenges are keeping things interesting.  talk to your guests, stat  and keep them in the loopwhether its fancy or super casual, the whole goal of a dinner party is hospitality, willis said.  and that means making people comfortable, whether thats finding out if theyre allergic to your adorable dogs, or have any intense dislikes. after deciding on guest list, the first thing to do is ask people for dietary restrictions because there are so many these days, lapin said. in this day and age ... its not uncommon to have pescatarian and gluten-free and dairy free [all at the same dinner.] i feel like it makes guests who have restrictions feel more comfortable so theyre not worried about making the ask themselves   you put them at ease.  keep it on the down lowit may be easier to send group texts or emails, but especially when it comes to dietary restrictions, that should strictly be a private conversation, our experts said. in the invite you can ask your guests to get in touch if they have allergies or other concerns, or even get on the phone with them. yes, an actual phone call, amidor said. especially when it comes to possibly touchy topics like, can i bring my little one or my dog who goes everywhere with me?.  save some embarrassment all the way around by making it a one on one conversation if you need to explain that its not a bring-the-kid event but that you can help them find a sitter, or that your building doesnt allow pets. when in doubt, go with fruitdesserts can get really tricky with dietary restrictions. someones lactose intolerant, someones celiac, so offering fruit is an out, said amidor. or, back to delegating [link to story 2], ask ask your friend with celiac to bring their favorite dessert, she said. you dont want to overwhelm yourself with going to 30 stores, so now youve killed two birds with one stone. lets hear it for the kidsif kids are welcome at your dinner party, dont assume your guests know that. ive had to remind myself that  maybe because we dont have kids ourselves  friends dont automatically know its ok to bring their whole family when we invite them for dinner. dont be like me and wait until a couple days before to say, oh, youre bringing the kids, of course, arent you? when theyve probably been scrambling for a sitter because they didnt want to ask. make it clear in your invitation, and it wouldnt hurt to follow up to be sure they know kids are welcome and encouraged. thats a good time to ask if theres anything you can provide to help keep them entertained. ive been amazed at the planning and packing skills of my friends who are parents  they come with a plethora of things for the kids to do  but at minimum i like to have crayons and paper and a game or two on hand (or, hey, nobodys judging here  a room with a tv!).  what if its not five oclock somewhere?booze  at least where  i live, in bourbon country  feels like such an integral part of a dinner party that it can be easy to overlook providing non-alcoholic options. guests may not be drinking alcohol for any number of reasons, and if theyre skipping the adult beverages it doesnt mean they should be stuck with the last case of lacroix you picked up at costco. lapin has one solution when you know any of your guests wont be imbibing. maybe its uncouth but you can delegate that to them, she said, and ask them to bring whatever they want to drink. if youd like to have some things on hand, she said, kombuchas a good one because its fizzy, or some sort of interesting ginger beer or craft soda. amidor likes to serve mocktails in pretty glasses, or even something simple like mulled apple cider or cranberry and orange juice, with fresh mint.  cant we all just get along?whether its radically different viewpoints from one family member to another, or a falling out among friends, its possible youll end up with a group where a couple people arent exactly going to hold hands and sing kumbaya. now is not the time to play relationship therapist. if you know that people dont like each other, amidor said, worst case just do [assigned] seating. and keep them far apart. and bonus round: help a host outif youre invited to a dinner party, and wont under any circumstances eat, say bell peppers (my personal nemesis), dont cross your fingers the host remembers your hatred for the ingredient, only to find a melange of bell peppers staring up from the dinner plate. or maybe youve joined the whole 30 movement and are sticking hard and fast to the rules. speak up, amidor said.  as a guest, approach [your host] and say, im following this [diet], and i want to make sure theres something on the menu. i can give you recipes or i can make my own dish. give  your host a couple options, she said (and make them simple!).do like i doat the end of the day, remember why you threw this party to begin with, and enjoy yourself. after all, willis said, if the host isnt having fun, no ones having fun.       

so youre throwing a dinner party. it seemed like such a great idea when you thought of it: friends, food, drinks, what could go wrong? then you started thinking about what this will actually entail and yikes! how bad would it be to just order pizza delivered or call it off altogether?before you enter full panic mode, take a breath and read on for some tips from experienced pros. toby amidor, ms, rd, and wsj best-selling cookbook author; food writer phoebe lapin, a gluten free chef and author of the wellness project; and james beard award winning chef and author virginia willis, talked with nbc news better to share their secrets to successful  and as low-stress as is humanly possible  dinner parties. were taking a three-part approach in this series, looking at planning, preparing for, and finally navigating the big night.read on for smart tips for organizing and prepping for your party.put pen to paperonce you have your guest count, party format, and menu in mind [link to first story in series], get out your pen and paper. i know there are apps but you need to look at each of your recipes, amidor said. you need to sit in your kitchen and look in pantry  you dont want to overbuy and end up with three paprikas. to save yourself some time, and maybe even a repeat trip to the store, she said, make your shopping list in order of the flow of supermarket.its never too soon to startthe last thing you want is to be scurrying around frantically as your guests arrive. when you go to a restaurant all of the prep isnt started the minute you walk in, willis said. the bartender isnt squeezing the juice for you when you order the drink. the chef isnt chopping the herbs right then. take your cue from these professionals and get as much work done in advance as you can. because this last-minute stuff will frazzle you, and if the host isnt having fun no ones having fun, she said.with that pen and paper, list for yourself, what can i make and freeze? amidor said. what can i store in fridge for a few days, and what do i need to make night before? even for the more last-minute things, can you get your mise en place, the chopping, cutting, and measuring, done?anything you can freeze, you can do up to two months in advance, she said. come party week, salad dressings last five days to a week, she said. throughout the week make small things, and make salads the day of.anything with roasted vegetables, those can be pre-roasted and if you really want it hot tossed back in the oven right before, lapin added. soups, stews, casseroles are great make-ahead things. there are very few things that cant be made in advance.to help expedite things when you do get down to the last minute crunch, i encourage people to pull out their serviceware and platters and all that [ahead of time], willis said. add a sticky note to the bowl for the brussels sprouts (or whatever) so your partner or whoever helping, when you honey say go get the brussels sprouts bowl, honey knows what that is.delegate, delegate, delegatedont feel bad asking for help. in fact, you totally should. even though lapin does this for a living so has things under control when shes hosting, ive noticed that people really want to bring something, she said. i remind myself its not a burden [on them], its a generosity thing, a way to let them feel like theyre contributing. so make the most of it, she said. people genuinely want to bring something and if you dont specify it will be wine  which is fine and also great, but usually you dont need a bottle per person, so you may as well help them bring something useful.like what? lapin likes to assign finger food and dessert. thats a much easier thing to not make yourself, she said, and it doesnt have to be hard for the guest either. its easy to stop by a bakery or get some cheeses. the perfect dessert delegation is tell someone to bring assorted fancy chocolate bars. shell also suggest salad. ill make dressing and someone can bring greens, and you know what, thats not that helpful but at least they feel like theyre helping. (note to self: dont bring greens to dinner!)one big note on delegating, though. nobody wants to be the one bringing the boston cream pie to a room full of gluten-free vegans. make sure you relay the dietary restrictions and give ideas, lapin said.yes, you can potluck a dinner partywhat if you didnt take everything on yourself? why not?one of her best recommendations for people short on time, amidor said, is i truly tell them to go potluck and i think that is one of the best ways.the host can play organizer in this case, she said, doing online invitations that allow guests to note what particular diets their dish is suitable for, and letting everyone see the menu in advance.or? take another route. my rule of potlucking is see where it takes you, and you know what? if you have 10 desserts thats going to be an adventure, lapin said. theres a weird potluck esp where you somehow end up with the right things. but if you end up with five sweet potatoes its a cook-off!shortcuts are your friendeven if you dont go the potluck route or want to delegate, you can still let costco or your favorite store shoulder some of the burden.wherever you can, get some help, lapin said. and you can be strategic about it. while she likes to prep veggies herself because they look better, if i want to save time ill buy the dip, or you can do the opposite. there are things that can be bought and assembled in a beautiful way  nuts, fruits, beautiful crackers -- so easy to execute if you buy the right thing, and people are usually impressed with it.think about things that really are time savers, amidor said. some place have a large sushi platter that feeds at least six to eight people, thats really fun. if youre going to invest, id rather it be something i cant put together [myself] in five minutes.you can also mix and match, she said. you dont need everything pre-made. think pre-made pizza crust with your own more healthful toppings for pizza bites.and after dinner, theres nothing wrong with serving ice cream and cookies for dessert, willis said. i dont try to pass them off as my own, what she does is give them a boost. the walker shortbread, pop those on a baking sheet and warm them up and the butter flavors bloom again. im in!keep cool and dont worry if the food is tooforget killing yourself trying to get everything straight from the stove to the table. i think a general misconception about dinner parties is everything has to be fired up last minute and served piping hot, said lapin. most of the time food tastes fine room temperature. and some are ideal. grain salads taste great room temp and can be made in advance, she said.if you only do one thing, do thisif youve ever scrambled to tend to the pile of plates after a dinner party you know whats coming. willis left us with this great tip: have an empty dishwasher!

so youre throwing a dinner party. it seemed like such a great idea when you thought of it: friends, food, drinks, what could go wrong? then you started thinking about what this will actually entail and yikes! how bad would it be to just order pizza delivered or call it off altogether?before you enter full panic mode, take a breath and read on for some tips from experienced pros. toby amidor, ms, rd, and wsj best-selling cookbook author; food writer phoebe lapin, a gluten free chef and author of the wellness project; and james beard award winning chef and author virginia willis, talked with nbc news better to share their secrets to successful  and as low-stress as is humanly possible  dinner parties. were taking a three-part approach in this series, looking at planning, preparing for, and finally navigating the big night.read on for intel on how to get started planning your dinner party.pick a number, any numberfirst up, youll need to know how many guests you can accommodate. is your kitchen small, or your dish collection not up to a large crowd, but you have a ton of friends you want to invite? lapin says theres no reason to fret about this. just invite as many as you want, she said. (if you think you dont have enough space, check out the original supper club from jim haynes in paris; the host packs dozens  dozens! -- of people into his miniscule apartment and nobody minds.)the key is youll go more casual the larger the number of guests.if youre having a more formal seated dinner the math is easy  number of chairs equals number of guests.however, she said, you dont want to be somewhere in between. if you have chairs for 10, you dont want to invite 13 -- you gotta go big or meet your table parameters. and forget about your dish cabinet inventory. with plateware if worst comes to worst you can always buy fancy disposable.whats not on the menu?planning around guests dietary restrictions is up next. well devote a whole article to navigating menu planning when jack sprat can eat no fat and his wife can eat no lean. for now, know that before you even think about what youre cooking, first you need to know what you cant cook.with that intel in hand, its best to find dishes that everyone can enjoy, willis said. i find it incredibly inhospitable to have split dinners, [where its] heres your sad little piece of fruit. its not only more hospitable but less work if you can accommodate everybody.choose a formatknowing how many are coming and what youre serving will help you decide how to serve. if its a larger group with varied diets, there are beautiful buffet menus you can make, lapin said. many times ive thrown chili parties with like 30+ people and you just need two cauldrons full of chili  [one] veggie and [one] not. have apps spread around the house and a salad, and cornbread and lots of toppings.for a sit-down dinner, think a large, slow-roasted protein, and at least another main, plus of course a slew of sides. since were going into holidays, centerpieces like big pieces of meat cooked low and slow over time are great options, lapin said. i love a big roasted pork shoulder that ill just shred last minute in front of people  their mouths water. or a big roast ill carve at the last second.how much do you need? though dietary guidelines are four ounces of meat per person, you should always count on leftovers, amidor said, that you can use to meal prep or freeze. when i do thanksgiving i try offer a pound of meat per person. at non-major holiday dinners where stuffing oneself is a competitive sport, if youre taking about something like a roast six ounces is generous depending on how many courses, willis said. keep in mind though, to get six ounces cooked, youll start closer to eight ounces raw, so think one pound for every two people.one taco bar to rule them alla taco bar was popular as a dinner party solution among our experts.willis likes to do supercasual off-the-stove buffets with tacos and lapin seconded that. i do a lot of taco nights and burrito bars that involve sides and accoutrements that can be mixed and matched so any restriction can be accommodated, lapin said. especially with fillings  a quinoa side can be a main for vegetarian. this approach also lets you delegate, she said. ask someone to bring chips and salsa, and if someone doesnt want to cook they can go to the mexican place on the way there.and having had the good fortune to be invited to a friends home for taco night while we were kitchen-less during a renovation, i can vouch for the appeal of this approach. we sipped margaritas and hit the chips and salsa before gathering around the island where our host had all the fixings for some amazing tacos. so casual, so delicious, and (hopefully for her!), so easy.save your experimenting for another timeyes, its tempting to read up on fun new recipes to try out for a party, but resist this urge, willis said, especially if its not from a source you know well. i was happy to have taken her advice when we recently hosted friends who are newly vegan. i found a recipe for vegan chocolate pot de crme online from a new-to-me blog and whipped up a test batch the night before. it was a definite no-go. fortunately i still had time to tweak it and make a new batch the next day that was a winner. moral of the story: stick with your tried and true.do the math on beveragesif your friends enjoy the occasional adult beverage, a trip to the liquor store is in order. how much should you buy? not to be a buzzkill, but think responsibility here.if theyre driving home, as the host you have to be responsible, amidor said. you dont want to have people drinking and driving. even if theyre ubering or walking, do you want them to blame you tomorrow for a hangover? so on the safe side, plan on about two drinks per person, said amidor.now, if youre going to have a proper adult dinner party usually its like one to two cocktails before dinner, and wine with dinner, willis said. a bottle of wine has about five glasses (or four at my house), so crunch some numbers based on how boozy your friends will get with the meal, and keep things simple before dinner by batching cocktails.and of course we always always have a non-alcoholic option, willis said. that might be a blueberry lemonade in the summer (that guests can add vodka to if they like.) in fall or winter, warm apple cider can be mulled. its sort of festive. and you can always add bourbon.ready? next up: smart tips for organizing and prepping for your party.

a recent divorce. the death of both parents in 3 months. a firstborn child heading off to her first year of college. a family pet dying.i had dealt with all four of these life-altering situations over the past year and, coupled with me running a thriving business and single parenting five children, my stressful life had finally caught up with me. after dropping off my daughter emily at college, my 47-year-old heart wasnt feeling right. and, i dont mean i felt heartbroken from missing her (which i did). i actually had some nagging chest pain and other symptoms that i kept putting off due to my hectic pace. with a family history of heart disease, i knew stress could be a factor in causing some valid cardiac concerns. after an unexpected er visit and an overnight stay at the hospital to double check that running on emotional and physical empty hadnt caused me actual lasting damage (which thankfully it didnt), my trusted family doctor prescribed me something: some much-needed and ongoing self-care.an offer i couldnt refuseconcerned about the compounding ramifications of my past few years of grief, a longtime client of mine presented a very generous offer. they booked a trip for me to get away from my busy agency and five kids over a long weekend. the condition? i needed to rest and recover for four days alone. the pragmatic side of me had avoided such luxuries of late because i have a second child beginning college next fall and self-care of this magnitude seemed frivolous to a working single mother. however, this kind gift and unusual opportunity was one that came at the most perfect time for me and i seized the moment. my kids were all in full support and some wonderful friends were more than happy to ensure my children were well cared for during my retreat.i packed 12 self-help books (that i wanted to read but never could in my real life), several swimsuits, some work out attire and definitely no makeup or stilettos and began my mini self-discovery trip.upon landing in scottsdale, arizona, i headed to a place called sanctuary at camelback mountain. i was immediately transfixed by the hot dry air, the bright blue skies, cacti and vivid florals in every direction. i immediately felt myself exhaling for probably the first time in three long years of loss. in reflecting back about that first day, i had some anxiety and trepidation about my ability to just completely turn my brain off. could i possibly like being by myself? in my entire life, i had never traveled for pleasure or self-care alone. i always had a spouse or children tagging along so this was quite foreign to me. the first night i was alone, i got a bit panicky. i texted a close girlfriend and told her i wasnt sure i was cut out for solo vacationing. her advice? she asked me what i would have been doing anyway that night if id been back at home in chicago. i answered: likely watching a show on netflix or reading. so, she said, get over myself and do it there. and thats just what i did. i embraced her candidness and took a bath and watched tv in the tub and smiled. maybe this wasnt half bad?coming back to lifeover the next several days, i began to notice myself coming to life again in a way i hadnt in a long, long time. i started just being very grateful to be in a quiet, beautiful place. i ate delicious healthy breakfasts each day. i embraced (and somewhat feared) hiking up a mountain with a guide who kept me from falling over the edge and well-hydrated in the 100-degree heat. i read four (yes four!) books during the trip. i tried an aerial yoga class that sounded fun and different to me (lets just say p!nk does it better than i do!). i meditated and prayed. i became my own favorite companion. it was incredibly freeing and just what i needed after my losses and busy life.as i was flying home, i began to create a list on my iphone (im still type a when relaxed) and began to make personal commitments to myself. i would get more rest, i would exercise more, i would eat healthier foods. so what was top of the list, you ask? i would invest in myself and always plan to take a me-cation each year. i found that after my inaugural trip, i was more relaxed, reflective and inspired which has helped me immensely.a me-cation with lasting effectsin fact, in the month or two since returning, i have found myself being so much more peaceful and balanced in work and life. i have also had a renewed energy and joy about me that others are noticing both in photos and when they see me out and about. considering a solo trip? id like to offer the following tips to anyone who has experienced loss, deals with anxiety or just has a stressful life like me:dont feel guilty.  of course my first reaction to the suggestion of my trip to arizona was to say a firm no due to my responsibilities to my children and my employees. guess what? everyone was not only happy to help but admitted i needed to go. that gave me the self-permission to accept a blessing and just go enjoy myself.document the journey. i promised myself i wouldnt look at email or do any calls during my me-cation and i kept that promise. however, i did take tons of shots of beauty that i saw all around me. i have found myself looking back on those photos often since and it centers me and reminds me of why it was such a good idea to go in the first place. document your trip in some way by journaling or photography so you can reflect later.make a commitment to do it again.  it had never occurred to me that i needed this trip so badly until i went. now, i will always commit to better self-care and self-discovery to help me continue to evolve and become a better version of me, as one dear friend of mine likes to say. i also think its really good role modeling for my children to see the importance of self-care and nurturing for their future, likely stressful, lives.ive continued to be busier than ever at work and my every-minute-of-the-day job as a mom of five wonderful kids. my kids werent sorry i went. my team felt thankful that i was more focused and happier than i was before i left. ultimately, i feel more connected to myself and god than ever before because i took time to feed my mind, body and soul. dont wait until you are in the hospital to recognize you need to love yourself first before you can love others. travel agents are standing by.more from bettertry this simple trick to unburden yourself from an over-stuffed schedulei said no to unpaid emotional labor by saying goodbye to this wordwhy the 20/10 method can change the way you clean your housethis daily gratitude routine can train your brain to be happierwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

mister swiss was dropped off in the foyer of my building on a thursday in early spring. he traveled in a huge box, at least three feet tall and weighing about 35 pounds. i carried him, still inside the box, up the four flights of stairs to my apartment. i guess you could say this was my first act of love for him.mister swiss is a rather gigantic and vibrant monstera deliciosa, sometimes affectionately known as a swiss cheese plant. (get it?) i ordered him from bloomscape, a direct-to-consumer, online-only plant retailer. after just a few days out of the box, positioned in a sunny corner of my living room, he began to stretch his big tropical leaves, sprout new ones and generally establish his domain.tending to mister swiss  watering him every week, dusting his leaves, rotating his pot so that one side doesnt get too much sun  makes me happy. i worry about him when i travel. i talk to him. and in return, i get healthier air and a living, growing subject for my instagram feed. over text and in person, i trade stories with friends about their own adventures in house plant care. it seems were all slightly obsessed.with the millions of instagram posts tagged #plantsofinstagram, #urbanjungle and #plantlife, its obvious were not alone. but unlike other consumer trends, like those in fashion and beauty, the cultivation and care of houseplants has benefits that far outweigh the likes we might accumulate on social media. plants improve the air around us and they also improve our moods, help us think more creatively and disconnect from the technology that might have motivated us to buy one in the first place.plants resonate with millennials as an antidote to this insane connectivity, says eliza blank, founder and ceo of 6-year-old indoor plant retailer the sill. americans spend 93 percent of our time indoors. it seems somewhat counter and somewhat intuitive because its an escape from our screens, and something we can take care of outside ourselves. when its all self driving cars and data in our contact lenses, were still going to want plants.and blank has the receipts to prove it: the sill just closed a $5 million round of funding in august, and the company boasts more than 290,000 followers on instagram. people like me  a millennial, living in a rental in an urban area, not ready for pets or kids (financially or otherwise)  are buying houseplants at a record pace. according to the u.s. department of commerce, the sale of seeds, flowers and potted plants have increased since 2016, and the 2017 national garden survey found that five of the six million americans who took up gardening in 2016 were between the ages of 18 to 34. but why are millennials so drawn to the pastime?people and plants: a trend passed down through generationsthe proclivity humans have towards plants is certainly not unique to the millennial generation: houseplants are a concept that is believed to have originated in ancient greece and rome as early as 500 bc and in china as early as 200 ce. after all, the first imagined paradise on earth was the garden of eden.if youre scratching your head wondering how such an ancient concept can be considered trendy  and why young millennials without access to outdoor space have embraced houseplants so passionately  it helps to look back a generation, to the parents of the young people driving up sales around the country. caring for mister swiss (and his friends, a calathea freddie from the sill and a golden pothos i picked up at home depot) takes up about ten minutes of my time each week, which feels like a nod to, but a far cry from, the hours upon hours my parents would spend tending to our yard and garden when i was growing up.the yard of a home that they already owned when they were the same age i am now, which is amazing when you consider that, according to neilson, two-thirds of millennials are renters, and theyre more likely to live with roommates or family members than on their own.i was inspired to start the sill in part because i grew up in a very green town and our home was filled with plants and we had a beautiful garden, blank reflects. but the way my mother uses time is very different from the way i use time, and the way the next generation will too. no 25-year-old that i know has six hours on a sunday (or a backyard) to spend gardening, but that doesnt mean they dont have an interest in plants! were helping to usher in this new way to garden that reflects the way millennials want to use their leisure time.jessie artigue, a california-based entrepreneur, also says that her inspiration to start a home garden  that also includes an outdoor menagerie of lime trees, bougainvillea, dahlias and a rose bush named barbra streisand  comes from her mother. my mom has always had the most beautiful gardens, so ive been helping her since before i can remember, she says. watching my mom from such a young age and seeing the joy that [gardening] continues to bring her, it just seems to make sense as to why id (at least try to) follow in her footsteps.why are young people so drawn to plants?beyond the nostalgia, millennials may be drawn to greenery because of the mental health benefits that come with fostering our green thumb. blank points out that this is one social media trend that has irl (or in real life) benefits. unlike other decor purchases that also make great social content  like candles, throw pillows or art  plants are alive and require ongoing care. that sense of responsibility, the joy we feel as they grow and thrive, even just being around plants, is uniquely healthy for our physical and mental well-being in ways that may be particularly intriguing to the millennial generation.plants are stress-busters.with jam-packed schedules and around-the-clock connectivity, caring for a plant forces us to slow down and be mindful, which is proven to reduce stress. a study from the american psychological association on stress by generation found that young people report higher stress levels than older generations, and on top of that also admit that they are not managing it well. the study also found that millennials and gen x-ers were more likely to engage in unhealthy behaviors because of stress. so turning to plant care, as opposed to, say, heavy drinking or gorging on unhealthy food, could have real therapeutic benefits.environmental psychologist sally augustin, ph.d, suggests that caring for plants really is a healthy option for stress relief, and could explain why so many millennials are so drawn to the hobby. as long as people arent fanatically concerned with the health of your plants, and it remains a hobby rather than an obsession, relaxation will ensue.in fact, horticultural therapy has been in practice and recommended by psychologists and therapists since the 19th century to improve mental (and physical) health. practitioners believe that interacting with plants can improve your mood and well-being. while horticultural therapy is largely centered around working in greenhouses and outdoor gardens, the same general practices and benefits can be gleaned from indoor houseplants, too.taking care of something gives us a bigger purpose.many young people who cultivate indoor plants liken themselves to parents. [the term] plant parenthood was born out of the customers mouths, says blank, of the trademarked phrase youll find throughout the sills cheerful website. we started calling it that when we saw that our customers were calling their plants their babies. a lot of our customers have plants before they have pets or kids. its easy to draw life lessons from your plants and apply them to your life.thats not to say that millennials are eschewing marriage and kids all together, were just waiting longer. the decades of transition that put more and more women in the workplace pushed the median age of marriage from 20.8 for women and 23 for men in 1970, to 27.4 for women and 29.5 for men in 2018. younger generations feel more pressure to have their lives figured out, so to speak, before getting married or having kids, so supplementing the need to nurture and care for someone or something with plants feels like a step in the right direction that wont drastically change our lives, our homes or our budgets.dr. augustin echoes blanks observation about the effects that caring for plants can have on our well-being. it brings out and creates a habit of thinking of other living things, and what they need to survive, she says. people form an emotional bond with plants because plants have these beneficial psychological effects. ultimately, we develop a desire to optimize the life of a plant and to keep it alive.we are creating a sanctuary at home.from a purely aesthetic perspective, humans are wired to respond positively to plants and nature (as well as other forms of life). green, leafy plants are good for our mental outlook, says augustin. something about the colors and the shapes helps our brains think more creatively, cut stress levels, and get along better with others. the hypothesis is part of a concept known as biophilia, which explores the idea that we (humans) are naturally drawn to other living systems like plants and animals, and have an innate desire to connect with and care for them.artigue, who often works from home, says that houseplants are essential to her work life. my environment has always been very important to my overall mental health, but also my creativity and productivity, she says. working from home (and being a visual and design-oriented person) means that my surroundings are a priority for me and plants just seem to make any corner or surface a lot more appealing.its because [plants] affect our mood, says augustin. when our mood is more positive and were happier, our brains start to work in a different way. we think more broadly and creatively, which makes us better at problem-solving and getting along with others. for this reason, augustin suggests placing green, leafy plants with curling, relaxed shapes (like pythos, ferns, and geraniums) around your home and office environments, too.plants foster sense of pride and accomplishment.artigue also notes that she gets to know each of her 15-plus house plants, and that she feels a sense of pride in tending to their specific needs, like you would for a pet or a child. she even sings to them while she waters them. the house plants are my responsibility and my joy. caring for them brings me a lot of happiness because there is a sense of accomplishment in keeping them alive. i like learning about each of their needs and preferences and watching them thrive when i do the right thing is weirdly very rewarding!according to augustin, those rewarding feelings are great for our sense of self. keeping a plant alive can definitely be an achievement that is consistent with a positive self-concept, she says.and for the sharing generation, displaying our plant parenting on social media is something that actually feels good. the share-ability of plants isnt just because theyre visual  our social channels are a reflection of ourselves, says blank. its like a badge of honor, being a plant owner. like, im succeeding at something thats not tacky!its not a humble brag, its something to really be proud of and that other people can be genuinely supportive of, too, like, hey! you kept that plant alive!growing togethera well-cultivated plant can far outlive even our beloved pets, and can propagate more plants and literally grow alongside you and your family. i think about the plants that are in my childhood home, and most of them are actually older than i am, blank reflects. plants have a weird connection to time. theres a plant in my parents home that was propagated from my grandparents home and that plant has given life to plants in my friends homes, and theres something so magical about that. this is why i find plants so compelling.while i initially put my green thumb to work in response to the beautiful potted plants i saw popping up on my instagram feed, theyve quickly earned a place in my heart. the prospect of having mr. swiss and his friends long after ive moved out of my funny east village apartment  and perhaps even after ive left new york  is both exciting and a little too big to dwell on for long. i dont have a car, or kids, or even a cat, and i have no idea if or when i ever will. but ive got a large and cheerful monstera deliciosa that needs me, and as jessie artigue put it, caring for him really is my joy.more mental health helphow defusing my thoughts helped me claw my way back from debilitating anxietywhat is emotional labor? 7 steps to sharing the burden in marriagehow to worry betterhow to transform anxious thoughts into productive actionstoo fidgety to meditate? tap into a state of flow insteadwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

alzheimers disease is the most common type of dementia, and the sixth leading cause of death in the u.s. (the third if youre just looking at older adults)  according to the national institute on aging.scientists know its the build up of toxic proteins and other molecules in the brain cells that eventually start to damage the way those brain cells work that causes alzheimers symptoms. the damage tends to start in the memory centers of the brain, causing one of the diseases hallmark symptoms: cognitive impairment.in later stages of the disease the damage to the brain is more widespread, affecting other functions.while the disease is a devastating, irreversible chronic condition, evidence is emerging that making certain lifestyle changes may reduce your risk  so long as you are working on them throughout your life.we really should start thinking about preserving and promoting brain health in our 20s and 30s, rudolph e. tanzi, phd, professor of neurology at harvard medical school, co-director of the mccance center for brain health at massachusetts general hospital, tells nbc news better.all of that damage that eventually leads to memory, thinking and other problems, starts building up decades before you have symptoms, tanzi says. its never too early to take care of your brain.what works when it comes to keeping your brain in shapelisa mosconi, phd, associate director of the alzheimers prevention clinic at weill cornell medical college, adds that there are many misconceptions around what does and doesnt cause alzheimers disease.an important takeaway she wants to impress upon people is that lowering your risk of the disease is something you should be thinking about not just as you get older, but at all ages.alzheimers disease is not always genetically determined and it doesnt start when youre old. its a disease with many different causes and risk factors, mosconi says. medical history, environment and lifestyle all really turned out to be a lot more important than we previously though they were.tanzi outlines six behavior changes to make that may lower your risk of alzheimers disease in a book he co-authored, \"the healing self\". heres why he and others say they work:1. get your sleepthe proteins that build up in the brain that eventually cause alzheimers  amyloid proteins  are ones that the brain uses every day. the brain gets rid of excess amyloid during the deepest stages of sleep, explains russell sawyer, md, assistant professor of neurology at university of cincinnati and a practicing neurologist in cincinnati who specializes in dementia and memory disorders.so people who dont allow themselves to get enough sleep during the night, as well as people with sleep disorders who dont get good quality of sleep (i.e. those who spend too much time in the lighter stages of sleep), may be allowing too much of these dangerous amyloid proteins to build up. and over years and years, sawyer and others suspect this excess of amyloid is a big part of the reason some people get alzheimers disease.sawyer  who researches the connection between sleep and dementia  points out that studies have yet to definitively show this buildup of amyloid protein in poor sleepers progressing to alzheimers disease. but research does show that the clearing of this protein happens during deep sleep, the build up of this protein is found in people with alzheimers disease, and that people with alzheimers disease tend to report worse sleep over the course of their lives. studies suggest, for example, that neurochemical changes associated with one of the most common sleep disorders  obstructive sleep apnea  may promote alzheimers disease progression (though properly managing the condition may protect against those changes in the brain).2. feed your brainyour brain, like other organs in your body, lives on (and functions properly) because of the foods you eat. the brain uses the amino acid tryptophan, for instance, to make serotonin (the hormone that makes you feel good). the brain uses the b vitamin choline to make the hormones responsible for making memories. and the brain uses omega-3 fatty acids for the actually firing (read, activity) of the brain cells, explains mosconi, who has authored the book \"brain food\" on the topic.the diet delivers the nutrients that the brain needs for everything  structure and function, she says. and accordingly when youre eating a diet that doesnt provide the nutrients you need youre at higher risk of alzheimers disease.the mediterranean and the mind diets (the latter being a variation of the former) are the only two diets that have consistently been shown to reduce risk of alzheimers disease, mosconi notes. those diets are well-balanced diets that promote eating a variety of foods. theyre high in plant-based foods (particularly high-fiber plant foods) such as whole grains, legumes, seeds, and nuts, and lower in animal foods (with the exception of fish).3. moveexercise is good for a lot of organs in the body, but especially for the brain, tanzi says. it leads to changes in the brain that appear to actually protect brain cells from the damage associated with alzheimers disease.research suggests this is because exercise increases levels of the protein, brain-derived neurotrophic factor.4. keep stress in checkchronic stress leads to chronic inflammation, which can cause damage to many organs in the body, including the brain, tanzi explains. and inflammation in the brain is ultimately what causes alzheimers symptoms in people whose brains have enough buildup of toxic proteins and other molecules. (a 2013 study established this point, and more recent work from tanzis group validated it.)making time for things like meditation, hobbies and breaks, and tuning out things that you know bring with them worry and anxiety (like the news or emails or social media) can go a long way in helping you take a break from stressors in any given moment or situation, tanzi says.5. learn new thingsdoing things that are intellectually stimulating helps your brain cells grow and stay strong (and continue to help us think)  and appear to protect against the cognitive decline associated with alzheimers disease. learn more about things that interest you and youre passionate about (the effect is even greater if youre interacting with someone else at the same time). if you love classical music, go to a concert or listen to a recording and talk about it with a friend. if you love tinkering with cars, go to a car show.what doesnt work when it comes to stimulating our brains? things like sudoku or crossword puzzles, mostly dont help stimulate your brain, sawyer says. your brain is efficient. every subsequent time you do those more route tasks, your brain gets better and better at them and require less energy to do them (read: fewer mental jumping jacks for your brain).6. stay socialinteract with people. interact with groups of people. socializing requires a lot of complex processing to happen in the brain, which stimulates brain cells like learning does, sawyer explains. those processes help our brain cells mature and stay strong throughout our lives.more from betterwhat happens to your brain when you go on a dietthis is your brain on prayer and meditationhow to train your brain to be more optimisticwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

should i get life insurance?this isnt a question i asked myself until quite recently, when my husband and i started discussing how to best prepare for having kids, and what sort of financial goals we want to set for ourselves now that were really ready to do the family thing.naturally, i googled life insurance. the wealth of information (crowded with mysterious money jargon) that poured out at me resulted in an instant headache. ill just come back to this some other time, i told myself.just a week later, that time, im declaring, is now, because im very good at procrastinating important financial decisions and, as my paltry retirement fund reveals, delaying these decisions hasnt worked in my favor.i turned to financial planning experts to learn the basics of life insurance, how it works and when its a wise investment.there are two types of life insurance plans: term and permanentthere are two basic kinds, term and permanent, says sean scaturro, director of life and health insurance advice at united services automobile association (usaa).term insurance is great for paying for the things you need to have paid for if you were to die during the next 20 to 30 years (the term of the policy), he says. permanent insurance, like whole life or universal life, will pay for the things you want to have taken care of when you die, like funeral costs or leaving an inheritance. permanent insurance will also gain cash value, similar to equity in a home that you can access over time.the pros and cons of perm and term: there is no right answerterm policies are cost effective and can be specifically tailored to when you need the coverage, says brad goldsberry, insurance solution finder at farmers insurance. [they] give you the ability to ladder your coverage for when you need it the most. for instance, the coverage you have to send your kids to college doesnt need to be in place forever. this allows you to only pay for the coverage you need at a certain time. this idea can be applied to everything, how long is your mortgage? when do you plan on retiring? how many years of income need to be replaced?the biggest downside to term policies, goldsberry highlights, is that they are not in place forever.if the insured gets sick and becomes no longer insurable, they will not be able to add additional coverage, he says. also, the cost of term policies only get more expensive as we age. a common mistake we see is people waiting until the end of their term policy to get another one. instead of taking out a new policy as early as they can, they wait and end up paying more for the same amount of coverage down the line.another downer about term policies, is that if you go to renew after the term, the premium will shoot up.for term policies you buy a set number of years, say 10. in year 11, the premium goes up to reflect the true cost, says mike dandrea, founder at dandrea financial. this increase can be 2-3x the original premium you were paying over the 10 year level period.permanent policies are, as the name indicates, permanent, meaning they span your whole life.a huge plus to these permanent policies is that they have cash value, they grow tax free and that money can be borrowed from the policy tax free after a certain number of years, says goldsberry. for higher-income earners, this can be an effective way to have tax-free income in retirement and provide them with great tax diversification. another plus to these policies is that they can be used to pass down an inheritance essentially tax-free. when someone passes away, they might have to pay some kind of estate tax on their assets, setting up a permanent policy to relieve this burden is an effective way to pass down what you have worked so hard for.it sounds like permanent insurance is the best way to go, but of course, this is the more expensive option.the downside is that they are not cheap, notes goldsberry. they are in place forever and will eventually payout while a term policy has the chance of never paying out. the returns in a life insurance policy are highly debated in the industry, some financial planners swear by the tax advantages while many say, buy a term and invest the rest. there is no right answer and everyones situation is different.assessing your needs: take the dimef testwe all should begin the process of choosing life insurance by assessing our own needs, which can be done by doing a dimef analysis.when deciding how much life insurance one needs, they should fill out a dimef analysis with their agent, says goldsberry, breaking down the acronym:debts: all debts that are not your mortgage. credit card debts, car loans, etc.income: lost income from a spouse or a partner is the main reason one gets life insurance. the idea is to maintain the lifestyle that members of the family have come accustomed to.mortgage: using a life insurance policy to pay off a mortgage can insure that loved ones can remain in the house they are currently living in.education: future educational costs for kids or spouses are another thing to think about. do you want to send your kids to private school? are they going to go to college, private or public? do you want them to be burdened with student debt?funeral expenses: only you know how you want your funeral to be. do you want it to be a small gathering of close family and friends? or do you want it to be a big party? funeral bills stack up quickly and having the correct amount of life insurance will ease the trouble for [your family].also take the l.i.f.e approachyou should carry at least five times your annual income and enough to pay for 100 percent of debts, scaturro says. a more comprehensive way to figure out your needs is to use the following approach:step 1: take the total of your l.i.f.e needs (liabilities &amp; debts, income to be replaced, final expenses, education or extra goals to be paid for).step 2: subtract the amount of savings or assets that your family would use immediately if you passed away andstep 3: subtract any current life insurance you own already excluding coverage offered through your employer.how much do these plans cost?the cost of life varies based on multiple factors including age, health, lifestyle, gender, type of insurance and amount of coverage, says bryan bibbo, accredited investment fiduciary with the jl smith group. a policy can be as little as a couple hundred dollars a year to thousands of dollars a year. it depends on each individuals situation and what they are looking for.skip johnson, founder of great waters financial, provides a helpful example of what term life insurance costs can look like:a recent search i did showed a healthy 25 year-old female looking for $250,000 of 20-year term life insurance would pay under $12/month. in a similar example, 65 year-old female that is in standard health looking for the same 20-year $250,000 term insurance would pay almost $250/month. a 33 year old male in good health can get $500,000 of term coverage that lasts for 20 years for $20.82 a month, he says. it is all based on life expectancy.a physical exam may be in order, and illness likely grows costsim young-ish (35) and in pretty good health, but i do have mental health maladies, gastrointestinal illness, and other fun stuff youd see if you went through my health insurance documents. additionally, some cancers run in my family.do my medical issues and potentially cancer-prone genetics mean my deductible will go up?probably.life insurance companies have the ability to discriminate on one thing and that is your health. whether diseases run in your family, your currently sick, or youre in the best of health, says bibbo. all of these considerations determine the cost of the life insurance.the older and less healthy you are, the shorter your life expectancy is and the more expensive a policy will be, adds johnson. the longer period of time you want to cover, the more likely you will pass away and the policy has to pay out thus resulting in a more expensive policy. to find out officially what costs are, you must go through underwriting. sometimes insurance companies can pull medical records, otherwise, they might need to order a full physical [though this is not always required].bibbo adds that if you take prescription medications, the likelihood of a paying a higher premium also increases.a wise investment that millennials should jump onthat poor health, age, medication needs and genetics can inflate costs is a definite bummer, theres really no case against having life insurance if you have relied-upon income, and want some financial safety net for your loved ones should you die.the younger you get life insurance, the lower your premium will likely be, yet this once standard investment isnt being embraced by millennials the way it was by previous generations.nearly 60 percent of millennials are not carrying any life insurance, but they should be considering it, says scaturro. there is a big cost for waiting.online calculators to the rescueif youre considering buying life insurance, you will need to consult with an agent, but in the mean time, take advantage of the many online calculators at your disposal.usaa has a life insurance needs calculator that can analyze your situation and give you a recommendation for coverage, says scaturro. its available for members and the general public.more from bettershould you save for your retirement or your kids college? heres the mathhow to take the stress out of saving for retirementhow to grow your savings fasterwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when you think about making an impact with your money, what comes to mind?there are always philanthropic efforts you can support, but what about investing your money in a way that makes a social or environmental impact, while also making you a profit? often called esg investing (environmental, social and governance), sri (socially responsible investing), csr investing (corporate social responsibility) or simply impact investing, the concept has been around for years, but millennials are charting new territory when it comes to doing good with their money.today, 43 percent of millennials are more likely to consider making impact investments versus only a third of generation xers and a quarter of boomers. when those surveyed were asked whats more important  making money or making an impact  the majority of all investors (67 percent) said they would prioritize having an impact. they arent saying, im willing to lose money, but they are saying, even if i have to get a slightly lower return, im okay with that to improve social issues and company governance, says lule demmissie, managing director of investment at td ameritrade.except that, they often dont. impact investments have outperformed the benchmark for eight out of the last 10 years, according to the msci esg leaders index. during the same period, impact investments also showed they were better protected from the downside in the market. thats why even people who arent so passionate about saving the world may want to get on the bandwagon (and why the bandwagon is turning into quite the parade.) in may, the global impact investing network reported that nearly $140 billion was invested in impact investment strategies, up from just $10.6 billion in 2014  a staggering increase. additionally, impact investment network toniic reports that its members now have $2.8 billion total in impact investments, up more than $1 billion since 2016.as the industry continues to grow and mature, we believe that over time, there will be no impact investing  it will simply be investing, says michael tiedemann, ceo/cio of tiedemann advisors.human rights is leading the wayso, where are people putting their money? human rights was the most popular cause category for investors, followed by the environment and diversity, according to the survey. millennials favored environmental impact and human rights, women tended to opt for gender equality, while men leaned toward diversity. nearly half of millennials  47 percent  felt so strongly about impact investing they said they would move their brokerage account to gain broader access to socially responsible investments.of course these conscious choices arent just impacting portfolios  publicly traded companies are starting to realize that its good for their business to give a more critical look at which suppliers theyre using, or how much of an environmental impact their operations may make. in some cases, companies are changing their behavior, and you can give investors the credit for the rapid momentum of those changes, demmissie says.a contributing factor in the disappearance of strawscompanies seeking to ensure long-term success may need to take a hard look at some of their policies, says jordan farris, head of etf product development at investment services firm nuveen. starbucks is a good example of a company adjusting its business model, he says. as concern regarding the increase in ocean plastic has grown, starbucks has made the decision to eliminate single-use plastic straws by 2020.for investors looking to ensure their money supports the best companies, farris cautions that the definition of what makes a company responsible can vary widely. overall, its any company that is incorporating positive environmental, social and governance practices into its core business model, he says. but investors can also have an impact simply by choosing not to invest in companies that are involved in major controversies, that pollute, or that manufacture tobacco or firearms, etc.how do you do well by doing good?investors looking to do their due diligence on a company before they invest need look no further than the internet, explains nick kovacevich, ceo of kushco holdings, the parent company of several cannabis industry firms. information is so ever-present today, and its not difficult for someone to do 30 minutes of research on a company and come to a determination if they are socially and environmentally conscious.if millennials have proven nothing else over the last decade, its that theyre willing to push boundaries, even when  perhaps especially when  it means a break with convention, and thats exactly what were seeing with impact investing, tiedemann explains. theyre questioning the traditional view of making investments to create wealth, and then once theyve made money, donating it to their charity of choice. theyve decided they want to get the double investment benefit of a social and a financial return, and theyre demanding that the marketplace provide it.and while it may be the millennials leading this charge now, theyre really just the thin end of the wedge, kovacevich says. millennials are going to teach their children the same ethics and values that they have, he says, and the impact investment train is only going to build momentum as it chugs along. tomorrows companies will either choose to hop aboard, or find themselves left at the station.with kathryn tugglehow to save more moneycommon behaviors that stifle our retirement savingshow to avoid these common bank feeshow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayswhat you need to know about retirement at every agehow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

no matter how you spin it, getting divorced is tough  especially if you have kids. even if the decision to part ways is clearly the best (or only) one, the resulting separation can be traumatizing for children. research shows that the best way to avoid risking the well-being of kids going through this difficult process, is to keep it as low-conflict and amicable as possible.how do you do that? for some divorcing or divorced parents, the answer is nesting (also called birdnesting). this means to keep the family residence intact as a home where both parents rotate living with their children, while otherwise dwelling in separate residences.one apartment in rotation, and the family home for all stays with kidssherri sharma, partner at aronson, mayefsky &amp; sloan, llp, a matrimonial law firm in nyc typically sees divorcing parents who take a nesting approach by keeping the main house and then sharing a separate apartment, which they individually occupy when not at home with the children.the way ive seen nesting done is not people having three homes, as most people, even quite wealthy clients, dont find that feasible, sharma tells nbc news better. usually the parents have a studio apartment they share and rotate, and then keep the marital home where the children stay put.the motivating concept behind nesting, as sharma puts it, is theres little disruption for the kids. theyre not being affected [environmentally] by the fact that their parents are separating.short-term nesting is the healthiest way to do itsharma has seen nesting work out well for clients who are parting amicably, but only if its done in the short-term.ive never seen nesting go on forever, says sharma. a few months is okay but for longer periods (beyond six months), i think the uncertainty of not knowing what it will really be like to have separate homes can be confusing or anxiety-[inducing] for children.dr. fran walfish, a family and relationship psychotherapist and the author of the self-aware parent: resolving conflict and building a better bond with your child concurs with sharma on a short-term nesting plan, and actually finds this method to be beneficial to children. she caps it at three months.the shock of the painful news to the children is softened by a brief transitional period in which the kids environmental surroundings remain the same and the only change is the presence of one parent or the other, versus both [parents] at the same time, says walfish. any longer than a period of three months of nesting risks giving your children an inaccurate message that [the parents] are working on reconciliation. all children of divorce fantasize and wish for their parents to work things out and return to being a complete family unit.some of the biggest perks are practicalceleste viciere, a licensed mental health clinician finds that nesting can benefit children both socially, and when it comes to practical everyday stuff.having the children live in the same house that is familiar to them can be beneficial because its easier to stay in the same school and keep the same friend group. often when kids have to bounce between different households, it tends to affect their social lives due to the location, says viciere. another upside to nesting is that kids dont have to lug their belongings back and forth between two places. it allows the kids to come to terms with the divorce without being separated from the environment they have always known.but viciere, too, sees the downsides of nesting.[nesting] may feel confusing to a child, she says, echoing walfishs concerns. children may struggle with having amazing family memories in the house but feel unable to share them together anymore. it could also lead to a false sense of reality where they become hopeful that their parents could get back together.to make it work, parents need to be on the best termsshelley a. senterfitt, a family lawyer-turned-therapist specializing in family law issues and relationships, does not recommend nesting as she finds that it can create opportunity for the very kind of conflict divorcing parents are trying to avoid.senterfitt offers the following hypothetical conflict that could arise: imagine if its moms week with the kids in the marital residence. she decides to make a big pot of chili and uses the last of the chili powder. she doesnt go to the store to replace the empty spice container. when dad moves back into the marital residence for his week with the kids, he decides to make a dish that calls for chili powder. when he expresses frustration that there is no more chili powder, the kids casually mention that mom made a big pot of chili the previous week. dad then calls up mom and tells her how self-centered she is for having used up the last of the chili powder and not replacing it.senterfitt notes that this is a pretty benign example, but adds, imagine if the issue were even more charged? what if dads girlfriend spent time at the house and left her bra there? how is mom likely to respond when she finds the unmentionables of her exs new squeeze? sharing a residence creates too many opportunities for parents to trigger one another which will not benefit the children.all that said, senterfitt still does see nesting sometimes pan out successfully for the very short-term.the only instances i am aware of in which parents have made nesting work is when it is done on a very time-limited basis (e.g. for the remainder of a childs senior year in high school) and when the parents have had a very amicable divorce (e.g. they both wanted to end the marriage and are committed to putting the childrens interests ahead of their own), senterfitt says. [but] this describes a very small portion of divorcing couples.nesting not an option? you can still do right by your kids in divorceeven if you do want to give nesting a try, its not always a feasible plan. money is key (along with figuring out who will maintain the costs of the familial home as well as that additional rotating apartment), as is a supremely calm and committed attitude which calls to mind the conscious uncoupling method made famous by gwyneth paltrow and chris martin in their apparently gracious divorce and co-parenting system.nesting or not, consider what you should do to put your childrens well-being and mental health first if divorcing.regardless of how you choose to divorce, being mindful of the potential effects to your kids is crucial, says viciere. some parents struggle with having difficult but realistic conversations with their kids in an effort to protect them. contrary to popular belief, you arent truly protecting your children by avoiding having these conversations. rather, it hurts them when you arent being honest about whats taking place. kids tend to already have an idea of whats going on and are quite perceptive of their environments. its expected that kids will have a hard time with divorce, but if you can be upfront with them about whats happening, and allow them to ask questions and have conversations around how they feel about whats taking place, it will help in navigating them through the situation.dr. walfish adds the following tips for the newly divorced or divorcing parents:\"keep structure and routine the same in both homes. maintain the same bedtime, mealtimes, wakeup time, homework schedule and extracurricular activities. the more stable your childs life and routine, the less separation anxiety they will suffer.keep rules, expectations, and consequences the same in both homes. when parents are able to do this effectively we see a reduction of angry behavior and emotional problems in teens.keep their school the same. [if possible] dont also move and change your childs home and school at the same time [as divorcing]. to lose the continuity of the same friends, teachers, campus and overall school environment could be even more traumatic for your child who must adjust to the divorce shakeup.nurture, nourish, and facilitate ongoing relationships for your teen with extended family members. when parents divorce, sometimes kids lose their cousins, aunts and uncles on one or both sides of the family. the more people who love and care about your kids the less painful the divorce will be. allow your child to be loved by many people.never fight or argue or create a deafening hostile silence with your ex in front of the kids. this is the number one complaint of children of divorced patients of mine.more parenting tipswant compassionate, bully-proof kids? do thisrealistic screen-time solutions for kids and their parents7 surprising benefits of being an older parentwant more self-reliant, responsible kids? try selbstndigkeit, the german waywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

been shopping at any big chain stores lately? if so, youve probably been asked at the checkout counter something like this: would you like to apply for our credit card and get a big discount on todays purchase?for retailers, this is not only prime-time sales, its the peak season for generating new customers. getting you to carry their credit card in your wallet is a perfect way to start a relationship and build brand loyalty.retailers push their store credit cards because they know that if they get somebody to sign up for one of those cards, theyre more likely to come back, and thats what its really all about for them, said matt schulz, chief industry analyst at the website comparecards, a credit card comparison website.some of the offers are mighty enticing:kohls charge card: 35 percent off your first purchase in store or online, plus another 15 percent discount when your card arrives in the mail.rei co-op mastercard: a $100 gift card when you make a purchase within the first 60 days of getting the card.the home depot consumer credit card: a $100 discount on a purchase of $1,000 or more within the first 30 days.amazon prime rewards visa signature card: a $70 amazon gift card immediately upon approval.keep in mind: interest rates on most store cards are significantly higher than other credit cards. a recent study by comparecards looked at credit cards from 50 of the nations largest retailers and found that:the average annual percentage rate (apr) for a store credit card is nearly 25 percent (24.97 percent), more than eight percentage points higher than the average apr americans pay on other credit card debt  currently 16.46 percent, according to the federal reserve.store cards that can only be used at that specific retailer or family of stores had an average apr of 26.93 percent. co-branded cards (with a visa, mastercard, american express or discover logo) that can be used anywhere had a slightly lower average apr (23.20 percent).retailers say theres a reason why the interest rates on their credit cards are higher  it has to do with increased risk.stores are more willing to give a card to someone with untested credit than a bank, often on an instant-credit basis, said craig shearman, vice president for public relations at the national retail federation. that means they are taking a larger risk and need to charge more interest to account for that.weighing the pros &amp; the consa store card is clearly good for the retailer, but what about you? it all depends. and its not easy to weigh the pros and cons when youre in a rush.that could explain why nearly half (47 percent) of the people surveyed by comparecards who have opened a store card, eventually regretted getting it. those most likely to have regrets:parents with children under 18generation xthose with household incomes of $100,000 or highera lot of times when you get these cards, youre doing it in a pressure situation at checkout and you dont have a whole lot of time to decide or to look at details, and sometimes you end up making a decision that you regret, schulz said.if youre offered a sizable discount on a significant purchase youre about to make  and you know you can pay off the balance when the statement arrives  it may be worth applying for the card at the register. i did that once and saved a bundle on an expensive winter coat, but i knew i could pay the bill in full when it arrived.you dont have to be an accountant to understand that it doesnt make any sense to pay 25 percent in interest to save 20 percent on a purchase.and there may be other perks, such as special cardholder offers, early access to sales and ongoing rewards.the most lucrative is a higher percentage of cash back, said jill gonzalez, an analyst with wallethub, a personal finance website. right now, that tends to be 5 percent. target has a good card  like that and so does amazon.because retailers tend to have a much easier approval process, a store card can be a good option for someone who cant get a credit card because of no credit or poor credit.by applying for a store credit card, you might be able to start building your credit, said bill hardekopf, ceo of lowcards.com, a card comparison website. if you start slowly building your credit and show the credit bureaus that you are a good risk, either once again or for the first time, store credit cards can offer you that advantage.deferred interest offersmany store cards offer special financing for that initial purchase: no interest for a specified promotional period, typically between 6 to 24 months.these deferred interest offers can be a real money-saver, but theres a big catch you need to know about: fail to pay off the balance in full by the end of the promotional period or make just one late payment and youll get hit with accrued interest on the full purchase price at the stores sky-high interest rate.a single late payment, even if its late by a day, can trigger that interest charge for the entire period of the deferred interest offer  even if youre just a couple months into that deferred interest period  which can really set you back, said john ganotis, founder of credit card insider.lets say you buy a tv for $1,000 and you dont pay off the entire balance by the end of the 12-month interest-free period or miss a payment. assuming the interest rate on that card is 24.97 percent (the average apr for store cards right now) youll be charged nearly $250 in accrued interest.note: you will never pay off the balance by the end of the promotional period, if you only make the minimum monthly payment.study the fine print at homeso what do you do when youre offered an instant discount if you apply for the stores credit card?the smart move is to get a brochure, take it home and review the terms and conditions. the checkout line isnt the place to make financial decisions.that said, if youre going to get a significant discount on a sizable purchase or you regularly shop at that store  and you know you will absolutely pay the bill in full when the statement comes  saying yes might make sense.if you plan to carry a balance, dont even think about applying for that card.you dont have to be an accountant to understand that it doesnt make any sense to pay 25 percent in interest to save 20 percent on a purchase, comparecards schulz said. as good as that offer might sound, if you cant pay, stay away.you can compare store credit cards at comparecards, creditcardinsider, and wallethub.more from betterhow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckheres what happens when you miss your credit card paymentsis it time for a new credit card? heres how to choose the best one for youwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

i used to like to run by myself in the evening, away from the busy streets and bright lights. then, one night i was followed by a group of men. fortunately i made it home unscathed, but my appetite for solo jogs was spoiled after that. i guess it was the last straw. i was already exhausted by the aggressive male behavior i had to endure: catcalling, heckling and lewd propositioning.these disturbing incidents were random, uncontrollable and at times terrifying. ive known so many women who can relate, and now i know even more after researching this article.none of these women succumb to fear. they recognize that they cant control what others do, that theres no such thing as asking for it, and that you can take all the safety precautions in the world and still end up a victim. but they dont give up what they love, an attitude that inspires me to get my sneakers back on and go for it, with some handy tips in mind.risk aversion is the key here  not risk elimination (which is impossible)part of what helps women runners stay confident is taking safety precautions. this doesnt mean theyre guaranteeing their safety (thats not possible), or that anyone who has been hurt or worse while running could have been spared had they taken more precautions (thats victim-blaming).what it does mean is that theyre having better, less stressful workouts by practicing risk-aversion.it is probably smart for women to have a certain level of risk aversion while they run because they are vulnerable targets to predators, says laura dugan, professor of criminology and criminal justice at the university of maryland. with risk aversion, they can make decisions that will reduce their vulnerability and consequently allow them to enjoy their running.heres how to practice risk-aversion when running alone as a woman:run in populated areas in the day timepredators will [typically] only attack when nobody else is around, says dugan. while it might be nice to run in the woods, perhaps [women] can choose to run in a more popular park where others will be around. also, women should avoid running at night.lauren crain, a woman runner, has a firm policy around this.if im running on a path, and i dont see anyone else for more than five minutes, i never run on that path anymore, she says. i feel a lot safer when there are other runners or bikers around, and if i dont see anyone for more than five minutes, ill usually turn around and go back.if youre new to an area, and not sure where to run, tina willis, a personal injury attorney and avid distance runner for nearly 20 years, recommends asking neighbors and even dropping by your local police station to learn what trails local officers recommend.also, given her expertise in personal injury law, willis stresses to not forget about another serious threat to all runners: drivers.i cannot overstate the importance of staying off road shoulders, especially really narrow or non-existent ones, she says.so, choose an area populated by people, not cars.ditch the earbudsone important thing i have changed in my running routine is that unless i am around a lot of people or running on the boardwalk during the day, i no longer put headphones on, says christie maruka, a fitness enthusiast who runs/speed walks daily. headphones playing music [is distracting] and i would zone out listening, and [thus be unable to] hear if someone is coming up behind me or at me. as much as i enjoy running to music its really not safe.crain makes a compromise.when i go running, i wear my broken headphones, she says. the right earbud doesnt work, so i can still be aware of my surroundings.at night, crain ditches the earbuds altogether, feeling that the mere appearance of them make her appear like shes not aware of her surroundings, so i want to limit that view of me especially when its semi-dark outside.carry pepper spray only if youre trained to use itmaruka also keeps her keys in her hand as a ready weapon, while many other women (myself included when im walking the dogs alone at night) carry pepper spray or another weapon.this may help you feel safer, but dugar discourages women from carrying weapons unless they are well trained on how to use them. this includes pepper spray and knives.dugars reasoning is mainly that your weapons can actually be used against you by an attacker. moreover, she points out, pepper spray expires, so if you are trained to use it, and confident doing so, make sure its not past date.susan mactavish best the founder and ceo of living mactavish, carries a large stone in one hand.i did this on the island of port-cros after i heard a wild boar, says best. i look at it both as a way for me to feel more confident and as a bonus, it [makes] my arm stronger.let someone know where you are and use gps trackingi always share my location when i go running, says crain. i let my partner know where ill be, and share my location with him via google.jen mcmahon, a certified integrative nutrition health coach, certified personal trainer and running coach, also makes a habit of letting people she trusts know when and where shes running.create a check-in system with a buddy so they know you made it home safely, she suggests.always carry your charged cell phone with you while running, she adds. there are new safety apps with gps tracking that will dial the police or friend/family member for you if needed with just one click.nail these self-defense maneuversif you are ever attacked while running, use your powerful voice. shout, yell, curse and do whatever you can to momentarily shock your attacker into changing their mind, says jennifer cassetta, a clinical nutritionist, personal trainer and self defense expert who founded stilettos and self defense.if things get physical, cassetta describes tactics you can use to take an attacker down:if grabbed or pulled or attempted to [be thrown] to the ground, drop your center of gravity to help keep your balance. get in a wider than normal stance so you wont be knocked down easily.then acquire and fire: acquire the most effective soft targets (on a male attacker) and fire away. those three targets are: eyes, throat and groin.jab fingers into the eyes.punch straight to the throat to disrupt breathing.punch or knee the groin in hopes to loosen up a grab or hold on you.keep firing away until you have a moment to possibly escape. all the while, be sure to try and dodge or block any blows coming to your head and face.if thrown to the ground, try to remember that the tools you have standing are the same ones you have on the ground and you can still fight back. keep firing away with your hands, fists, and kick with your legs. you can use your hips to throw an attacker off of you.join/start a local running group that addresses your concernssome of us just really like to run at night, but as dugar pointed out, women are vulnerable to predators, and they are most vulnerable at night when alone. running in a group is the easiest way to handle this, but why not take it a step further by joining or forming a local movement that is determined to empower women and involve men through conversation and action.you may be able to turn to your workplace to get things off the ground.my co-workers and i decided to start a movement, called despite the dark, where we shed light on the safety issues women face when they run, specifically at night, says rachel colonna, a creative studio designer and a founding member of the despite the dark team, who found that women co-workers were feeling more afraid of running after recent events such as the murders of runners wendy martinez and mollie tibbets, respectively.our biggest takeaway is that there is safety in numbers, which is why we are creating a community of runners to ensure a safe environment, colonna says. sadly, there is no way to be 100 percent safe all the time, but starting a conversation and a community is a way we have coped with the severity of these situations and started to find an answer.more tips and tricks for a better runwhat you need to know before running outdoorsthe right way to train for a marathon (from someone who learned the hard way)how strength training can prevent running injurieshow one man lost 100 pounds with a simple walk-to-run routinethe best workout shoes for women, according to fitness expertswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

have you ever been so engrossed in an activity that you forget the time, ignore distractions and feel both calm as well as challenged? perhaps you were playing a sport, practicing an instrument, crafting or even cooking.its called the state of flow, a psychology term popularized by psychologists mihaly csikszentmihalyi and jeanne nakamura and studied by many researchers around the world.theres this focus that, once it becomes intense, leads to a sense of ecstasy, a sense of clarity: you know exactly what you want to do from one moment to the other; you get immediate feedback, csikszentmihalyi said in a 2004 ted talk. you know that what you need to do is possible to do, even though difficult, and sense of time disappears, you forget yourself, you feel part of something larger. and once the conditions are present, what you are doing becomes worth doing for its own sake.turns out, activating the state of flow, or being in the zone, has a range of mental health benefits.think of it as meditation for fidgety peoplebrit morin, whos made a living out being creative as the founder of brit + co, a media and commerce company, says that pursuing that state of flow works works better for her than more traditional relaxation techniques.i find that creativity puts me in that state of flow, morin told better. i tried to meditate and im not a great sitting meditator. im more of a moving meditator  if im cooking, if im sewing, if im waiting or if im running, i hit that same state in my head.her experience of achieving flow while doing something lines up with what researchers have found. youre more likely to be in the state of flow while working, driving or doing a challenging, engaging activity. its less common while people are relaxing or watching tv, according to experts.this is sort of random and very specific, but cake decorating like puts me in that state, i dont know why, but when youre piping and decorating a cake you cant really mess up, its hard to scrape it off and re-do it when its an entire cake and then the reward is that i get to give it to somebody, morin said in an interview at her companys #creategood event in new york.being (and getting creative) has some major benefitsresearch shows that being creative boosts your mood, both in the short and in the long term when practiced routinely. for example, adults who are part of a choir group saw their moods lifted hours after singing. adults who routinely engage in a hobby report long term improvements to their mental health. being creative can be especially helpful for people dealing with difficult emotions, anxiety, depression and even trauma.the results can be physical too. multiple studies, for example, have found that adults with heart-related conditions saw improvements to their health (like reduced heart rate and cortisol levels) after participating in music therapy.regardless of how creative (or not creative) you feel, trying something fun, creative or picking up a hobby is worth it.i fundamentally believe if youre a human, youre creative because our ancestors all had to make and create to survive. you probably make food every day, you probably dress yourself every day, you probably have done some sort of interior decorating with your home, we all use creativity to problem solve and transform our lives, morin said.so a) stop saying youre not creative. b) if you want to try a new creative skill, there are so many online communities, she added.i fundamentally believe if youre a human, youre creative because our ancestors all had to make and create to survive.you can find creative online classes on youtube, instagram, youtube, instagram and brit + co, morin noted.at the end of the day, creativity is for fun, its for meditation, it isnt something you have to show off to a million people on the internet, so like stop judging yourself so hard and just use it as a creative pastime, a hobby, entertainment.more tips for a better day9 things to do this morning to make your whole day more productive12 tips to master your kids morning routine and eliminate stressthe productivity hack that allowed me to accomplish more in less time15 protein-packed breakfasts that can help curb cravingswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

emotional labor. its real, but often invisible, according to writer maddie eisenhart.whether its grocery shopping, managing kids or holiday shopping, emotional labor is all the work that often goes unappreciated in a relationship, explains eisenhart, an executive and blogger at a practical wedding.essentially, to me, emotional labor is all of the invisible work that is done in managing a household in a relationship, eisenhart tells nbc news better.eisenhart, 32, and her husband michael, 35, have been together for 15 years. the san francisco couple have an 18 month old son, work full time jobs, and share most of their domestic responsibilities. but for a long time, recalls eisenhart, she did most of the emotional labor in their relationship.at the very least, i mostly just felt really stressed out and burned out and resentful, because i was doing all of this work, and it was going largely unseen and unappreciated, but its been a process, she says.while her husband is a great guy, eisenhart says, it was a struggle to get him to take on his fair share of emotional labor. heres how she did it.step #1: make it visibleeisenhart decided to start making all of her invisible emotional labor visible.if they dont see the things that youre doing, they have no way of knowing whats being done, they have no way of knowing what needs to be done, eisenhart says.so she purchased a white board and hung it on her refrigerator. every day, she wrote down all the things that needed to be done.what i did was i put it all on the white board, and then i asked him to take ownership, eisenhart said. i said here are the 20 things that we need to take care of, and which do you want to do? and when he had the list, it made it very difficult for him to turn around and say, you should do all of it.she says it was important for her husband to be able to see the list of to-dos  she kept in her head.previously, i just think he hadnt been aware of how much labor i was doing, she says.step #2: get comfortable with being uncomfortablefor eisenhart, a big struggle with getting her partner to take on more responsibility was learning to stand her ground.asking more of your relationship often inherently means that youre going to get some pushback, eisenhart says.there were days, eisenhart recalls, when they argued, but she learned not to give in.part of this journey has just been accepting that its ok to add a bit of tension to my relationship if its ultimately going to make my marriage better, she says.she says she also needed to get comfortable with delegating effectively. for example, she says, when you need your partner to do something, dont ask them to do it. instead, phrase the question as a statement beginning with i need you to she says its also important to avoid criticism.i know hes going to want to respond to wanting to make my life better more than a criticism of what hes not doing or a statement of what needs to be done, eisenhart explains.step #3: refuse to be the middle man (or woman)often, the partner who shoulders most of the emotional labor inadvertently becomes the middle man, according to eisenhart.for example, eisenhart hired a dog walker to take the family dog out in the afternoons. often, on days when her husband would be home early, he would ask her to cancel with the dog walker.eisenhart says she accepted this responsibility for months. i was like sure ill be the middle man. until, one day, i was like, oh, there is no reason for this to be the case.eisenhart says she sent her husband the dog walkers number and told him to cancel on his own.my husband is an engineer. he works in high-level corporate environments all day long. he can handle texting a dog walker, she says.step #4: lower your standardsyou want the dishes organized a certain way, the toilet cleaned a certain way, the bed made a certain way, but your partner has their own way of doing these tasks. demanding they meet your standards only makes more work for you, says eisenhart, and isnt fair to your partner.if im going to ask my partner to be an equal partner in our marriage, that means that to an extent his standards need to be as valid as my own, which means that sometimes i just have to accept that things are getting done differently than i would do them, she saysstep #5: call out the injusticeif all else fails and your partner still doesnt shoulder their fair share of emotional labor, you may have to simply call out the unfairness, says eisenhart.sometimes, calling it out really plainly is a way to snap him into attention and realize that weve been falling into a sort of very gender stereotype trap, she says.step #6: understand no relationship is perfecteisenhart says she isnt on a mission to make her marriage perfect. rather, she sees it as a road to progress with some bumps along the way.i think a lot of maintaining peace in our marriage is that i am not trying to solve all of the inequities in our relationship all at once, and im also not asking for him to get it right every single time, she says. i just want to see that he has heard most of what im saying and is taking active measures to move forward.step #7: enjoy the benefitssince making her emotional labor more visible, eisenhart says her husband has taken on a lot more responsibilities on his own.i mean now, frankly, hes kind of obnoxious, she says with a laugh, because hes appointed himself cleaner of the cleanliness, and comes with a side of smug i was not expecting.she says her husbands efforts to do more have dramatically improved our relationship.i think part of that is because i am feeling much more gratitude toward my partner and much less resentful, eisenhart says, and it is much nicer when i feel like i have a true partnership  like we are really sharing in our relationship management.more from bettertry this simple trick to unburden yourself from an over-stuffed schedulei said no to unpaid emotional labor by saying goodbye to this wordwhy the 20/10 method can change the way you clean your housethis daily gratitude routine can train your brain to be happierwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if you work in a corporate environment  (and even if you dont) youve likely heard someone extol the virtues of emotional intelligence. you may have even taken an emotional intelligence test at work (like disc, for example), to assess how you interact with others and gauge your strengths.its no wonder: a study, published by the american psychological association, suggests that self-reported emotional intelligence predicts job performance beyond cognitive ability and personality traits.we know from research (and common sense) that people who understand and manage their own and others emotions make better leaders. they are able to deal with stress, overcome obstacles and inspire others to work toward collective goals. they manage conflict with less fallout and build stronger teams. and they are generally happier at work, too, according to a 2016 article on the topic in the harvard business review.what is emotional intelligence?though it sounds like corporate mumbo jumbo, emotional intelligence was first established by psychologists as a way to understand if there were different types of intelligence, other than whats known as \"general intelligence.\"a paper, co-authored by john d. mayer, a leading emotional intelligence researcher and professor of psychology at university of new hampshire, claims that emotional intelligence suggests solid social functioning because people have an easier time tuning into the feelings of others, understanding their perspectives, and are better at communicating and regulating their behavior.i was very interested in how emotions were important to problem solving, says mayer. what if there was an intelligence that gave credence to peoples emotions? mayer says, though emotional intelligence is related to general intelligence, its not a lockstep connection. the jury is out if emotional intelligence is one ability or actually several, he says. people with general intelligence seem to be able to reason socially. people with emotional intelligence seem to have better relationships with people and fewer issues with problematic and aggressive behaviors. most researchers would say that social intelligence should exist, but as of now theres no way to measure it successfully.emotions are a big part of what makes us human. the problem is when we let temporary feelings and moods rule our decision-making, leading us to say or do things we later regret.justin bariso, author of eq applied: the real-world guide to emotional intelligence, defines emotional intelligence as a process of learning to understand and manage emotions in order to make decisions that are more in harmony with your true beliefs and values. emotions are a big part of what makes us human. the problem is when we let temporary feelings and moods rule our decision-making, leading us to say or do things we later regret, he explains.emotional intelligence can help you make wiser decisionsknowing how we feel about things  and having an idea of how others might feel  can be socially and intrinsically empowering. our emotions influence our decisions on everything  from what career path to follow, to where we will live, to who we choose to spend our lives with, bariso says. emotional intelligence, when combined with other factors, can help you make wiser decisions, leading to a happier, more purposeful life.emotional intelligence can also help you harness negative emotions like anger, fear and sadness, explains bariso. for example, if were sad or angry theres a reason for it. identifying those emotions and their root causes can help motivate us to make changes for the better, he says.emotional intelligence, when combined with other factors, can help you make wiser decisions, leading to a happier, more purposeful life.with good intentions, an understanding of what makes people tick can be a very positive thing. but a 2011 study discusses the jeckyll and hyde aspect of emotional intelligence, when this understanding is used to mask your own emotions in order to advance interpersonal deviance, or, use what you know about others to manipulate them to your own ends.bariso feels the insights one can glean from emotional intelligence can arm you against these machiavellian types. thats just one more reason you should continue working on your own eq (emotional intelligence quotient), so you can recognize and protect yourself from these attempts to manipulate and control, he says.emotional intelligence takes practiceboth mayer and bariso say, to a degree, emotional intelligence can be learned. most of us learn algebra in school  our teachers give us the formulas and we learn how to apply them. we can do that with emotional intelligence, too. we dont have to figure it all out ourselves but with teaching we can improve our capacity to understand how we operate in ourselves and with others, mayer says.much of how we respond emotionally are habits that weve repeated over and over for years. the first step is to understand how your emotions work, and how those habits influence you. then, with time and practice, you can actually change those habits and increase your ability to manage emotions, says bariso.should you develop your emotional intelligence?mayer says it all depends on if you feel you need to. some people are emotional and some people are not emotional, he says. there is a normal continuum. we need people who are less squeamish to be first responders, and the same is true of those emotional intelligence. people with emotional intelligence contribute to the arts, communication and interpersonal relationships. if a person is having trouble in relationships, if they are having trouble with emotions, if theyre angry all the time, or if they have no idea how they feel about things and would like to know, then emotional intelligence might be worth looking into, he says.the biggest benefit of emotional intelligence? empathy.its a challenge to learn how to think and feel from another persons perspective, especially since it can be easy to misinterpret facial expressions and expressions of emotion. for example, a smile can mean joy or sadness, depending on the context, explains bariso. but one of the best ways to develop empathy is to ask plenty of questions and do more listening than talking. over time, youll get better at reading others while recognizing that things arent always how they appear.all told, bariso says, to maximize your emotional intelligence, you have to keep at it. theres no lifetime certification. just like a musician or athlete must continue practicing, youve got to continue reflecting and applying what youve learned, he says. just as long as you use what you learn for the greater good.more from better4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

for 36-year old jesse blondin, a manager in the canadian federal government in ottawa, theres no better way to multi-task than to run to work. as a busy mom of two, running the four-plus miles to and from the office allows her get in her training, freeing up time for other areas of life. to blondins way of thinking, thats a win-win.getting to work while getting in your exercise is good for the environment, good for the body and likely good for workplace productivity  as well. while there are no hard statistics on how many people run commute, the u.s. census bureau shows that about three percent of employees walk to work. the league of american bicyclists reported that in 2017, over 800,000 people bike commuted.having safe roadways or pathways is one element to making run, bike or walk commuting feasible, but so too is having a good system and the right clothing. blondin has her routine down pat: once a week, i drive into the office and drop off five lunches and snacks, along with clothing, she says. i take a shower before i leave, braid my hair and then use baby wipes or a towel to clean up once i get there.lisa blodgett, 50, another run commuter living in maryland, does something similar. i keep clothes and toiletries at the office and am fortunate to have a shower there to use when i arrive, she says. i usually get there, cool down a bit, and then head to the locker room to shower and change.athletic wear with these women in mindboth women are intrigued by the idea of a new trend in athletic clothing, however  commuter wear. these are pieces companies design with versatility in mind. a step above athleisure when it comes to formality, they are just as practical. run, bike or walk commuters can cover their miles, do a quick clean up and then move on into their day. this style of clothing can also work nicely in reverse  leave the office and jump right into the next event. i often run home and go straight to my kids activities, says blondin, and it would be nice to have something on that isnt necessarily strict running clothing.with women like blondin and blodgett in mind, athleta recently created an entire line of clothing designed to move from commute to office and back again, featuring everything from pants to parkas. athleta isnt the only company with this objective in mind. heres a round up of clothing both women and men can turn to when looking to marry up commute time with training time.better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.for women:athletathe commute/work line of clothing contains four sets of pants and coordinating tops and accessories. these are tights with a bit of panache and detail, like the herringbone mercer tight and stellar trouser. they move with you for any activity yet carry over seamlessly to the office. other pieces in the collection include sweaters, jackets, a button down and a commuter backpack.oisellea womens running company, oiselle has always set the bar high when it comes to style details. while its lines are heavy on the run wear, oiselles offerings have expanded to include pieces to take you from point a to point b with the ability to look office ready upon arrival. pants like the nbd  and story capris form a foundation on which to build a perfect commuter line, and there are plenty of tops and even dresses and skirts that could easily serve a walk, run or bike ride to work.reithe outdoor clothing and gear company recently introduced its wallace lake collection, designed around classics like the dolman pullover, down vests for cooler seasons, and a set of leggings in chocolate plum that dress up easily once you arrive at your destination. a mens line is also available.for men:icebreakerthis companys merino wool-based line of clothing is a versatile collection to get you through an active commute and right into meetings. consider the cool-lite compass shirt, a button-down flannel with a combination of elasterall for movement and polyester for wicking. other good bets include the persist and connection model pants, both of which present well while allowing for movement on your commute.showerspassfor the bike commuter in particular, the rogue pant is a top choice. its water resistant so it can handle the rain, has reflective accents when cuffed, and a hem cinch to keep the pants away from a potential greasy run in with the chain.rhonethis unique company has an entire line built around the workout-to-work lifestyle. worth checking out: the commuter city pant, made of stretch fabric and featuring a reflective back pocket and cuffs, and the commuter pant, with an articulated knee for mobility, stretch fabric and a media pocket. top it off with the delta pique polo, made with polartec for cooling and goldfusion to fight stink. the sleeve features shoulder articulation for improved movement.if youve never considered biking, running or walking to work, theres never been a better time to give it a go, especially when it comes to clothing. for her part, blondin likes the idea of commute-to-office wear. there are plenty of times where i roll into the office at 8:59 and have to go straight into a 9:00 meeting, she says. i think it would be great to have something more presentable that serves a dual purpose.more from betterwhat you need to know before running outdoorsthe right way to train for a marathon (from someone who learned the hard way)how strength training can prevent running injuriesi tried the alterg anti-gravity treadmill to fix my running formwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

chicken soup has long been used to help ward off colds, and it turns out theres some scientific evidence to back up this common sense cure. \"the best-known research, from nebraska pulmonologist stephen rennard, m.d., found that chicken-vegetable soup inhibited the movement of white blood cells that trigger cold symptoms such as a stuffy nose,\" according to a consumer reports article about home remedies for colds. additionally, the steam from chicken soup helps combat congestion, while salt can soothe a sore throat and the broth helps hydrate, dr. natalie azar explained on today.but most soups share those same hot, steamy and slightly salty properties with chicken noodle, so when it comes to fighting flus, colds and general seasonal malaise, why not mix things up by adding a few more varieties to your recipe repertoire?here, chefs and cooking experts dorie greenspan, andrew zimmern and giada de laurentiis share a few of their favorite versions of the ultimate \"food hug,\" as zimmern puts it.lemon chicken soup with spaghettiwhats better than homemade chicken soup? homemade chicken soup that comes together in less than an hour, like this lemony version from tv personality, cookbook author and restaurateur giada de laurentiis. \"its just like moms chicken soup, only my recipe uses spaghetti for an extra comforting twist,\" says de laurentiis. \"i use store-bought rotisserie chicken too  making it a breeze to whip up in a hurry.\" the additions of romano cheese, fresh parsley and fresh lemon juice elevate this soup well above anything youd find in a can  plus, you get a little dose of vitamin c from the lemons!matzoh ball soup\"soups are my ultimate comfort food evoking the emotional tug of my childhood, and of course the smell of my grandmothers apron,\" says zimmern, four-time james beard award-winning tv personality, chef, writer, teacher, executive producer and host of travel channels \"bizarre foods\" and \"the zimmern list\" and owner of the soon-to-open restaurant lucky cricket in the minneapolis suburbs. \"my ultimate go-to is my classic chicken soup, which cures every human ill imaginable, even spiritual maladies,\" zimmern adds of this classic chicken and matzoh ball soup, aka jewish penicillin.thai hot-and-sour coconut chicken soup amp up your chicken soup experience with andrew zimmerns take on a thai classic. \"thai hot and sour coconut chicken soup is a beloved favorite around the world, and everyone thinks its hard to make, but its super easy,\" says zimmern. \"the coconut milk and the exotic aroma make it truly soul satisfying.\" plus, adds zimmern, \"from a wellness standpoint, the broth and chilies in this soup cant be beat to kill the winter blahs or keep nasty colds at bay.\"detox soup\"this broth is a fantastic tune-up for your body,\" de laurentiis says of her tangy chicken soup with lemongrass, ginger and a thai chile for kick. \"its packed with anti-inflammatory veggies and spices such as garlic and ginger, to help with liver function and aid digestion.\"gingered turkey meatball soup chicken isnt the only poultry game in town when it comes to feeling better. proof is in this soup from five-time james beard award-winning author dorie greenspans latest cookbook, everyday dorie. \"this is the perfect cool-weather soup,\" says greenspan, whose accolades also include two cookbook of the year awards from the international association of culinary professionals. \"the broth is soothing and satisfying  its light, but its packed with flavor and chockablock with vegetables. the noodles are nourishing and fun to slurp. and the meatballs are tasty  it would be impossible for them to be otherwise, since theyve got plenty of herbs, garlic and ginger, and some yogurt for tang.\" bonus points for the fact that garlic and ginger might help fight inflammation. both the broth and the meatballs can be made ahead, and the meatballs can be frozen, then used for all sorts of dishes in addition to the soup, including pasta, bean dishes and sandwiches (try them on a roll with sriracha and mayo, as greenspan suggests). \"think of this recipe as soup with additional possibilities,\" says greenspan.beef, beet &amp; cabbage borschtwhen youre ready to move beyond poultry, try andrew zimmerns recipe for beef, beet and cabbage borscht, an eastern european and russian staple. zimmern loves the \"great interplay of vegetal sweetness and mild sour flavors\" in this hearty soup, which he also notes can feed a crowd. \"its also a great way to eat a ton of superb winter vegetables,\" he adds.kielbasa split pea soupget all the health benefits of beans and other legumes  including possibly improving immune function  with andrew zimmerns hearty split pea soup with sausage. \"this was my grandmothers recipe that i tweaked a bit and it is one of the most popular recipes ive ever developed,\" says zimmern. \"oftentimes i skip the sausage and just use the ham hock, but using both creates an irresistible layering of meaty flavors. the peas are so good for you, and the soup itself is a stick to the ribs meal in a bowl that simply cant be beat.\"pastina soup\"made with a tiny variety of pasta called stelline, a bowl of these tiny stars was just the thing we were given as kids when we stayed home from school sick,\" says de laurentiis, who also notes that her daughter likes the little star-shaped pasta, but that you could experiment with other shapes. \"it was warm, soothing and nourishing. truly a bowl of italian comfort.\" also comforting: the soup takes a mere 30 minutes to prep, start to finish, so you can be eating dinner and feeling better quickly!for more great soup ideas, learn how to hack your homemade ramen.more better-for-you recipesnutritionist-approved comfort food recipes that are actually good for you13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonighthealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutesfall recipes to add to your menu right nowwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.



with the fervor of the midterm elections, the time change, the barrage of tragic news stories in addition to just, you know, normal life stuff, many of us are feeling more anxious than usual.though some of us suffer from anxiety disorders, often requiring treatment, anxiety in itself isnt abnormal; its actually quite natural, existing in part to motivate us to get out in the world and do our best.everyone has a little bit of anxiety, says dr. kate cummins, a licensed clinical psychologist. its the reason you get up and out of bed and ready in the mornings when your alarm goes off [and] the reason you prepare well for an interview or meeting at work.we spoke with mental health experts to learn their best strategies for transforming anxious thoughts into tools that can be, as cummins says, your best friend in performance rather than a detriment, and move forward into action instead of allowing it to block you.take a few deep breaths right awayit would be lovely if we could just take our anxiety and immediately shift it into productivity, but its best we calm down first.once the [anxious] thought has been noticed, i like to ask my clients to take a few deep breaths, says melissa coats, a licensed professional counselor. this helps calm the body and let it know it is not in immediate danger. anxiety is fear and those anxious thoughts are trying to protect us from something horrible. so instead of being hard on ourselves about these thoughts, thank them for what they are trying to do and make a decision on how to proceed in a much clearer state of mind.download a meditation/mindfulness appapps like headspace or calm are interactive, supportive, and help to hold you accountable, says katie krimer, a licensed clinical social worker. they are an active way to productively address your anxious thoughts and increase self-awareness. at best, your anxiety is minimized, at worst, youve taken some time to gently observe how busy your mind is.get grounded in your spacenatalie finegood goldberg, a licensed marriage and family therapist recommends practicing physical grounding.this means shifting out of your head and into your body, goldberg explains. this can be done by throwing a tennis ball against a wall, standing in place and shifting your weight back and forth, or any act that allows you to focus on the connection of your body to anything physical. in doing so, you create a shift in the nervous system that allows your body to slow down so you can return to a healthy equilibrium that allows for rational thought.shift your thoughts to your surroundingsanother way of grounding yourself is by shifting your attention to your physical surroundings.when we are engaging in a lot of anxious thinking, we are over-identifying with those thoughts and getting caught up in their content, says krimer. the practice of stepping back and acknowledging objective reality (i.e. labeling items in the room using your five senses), it can help create space from those thoughts.write it outjust as journaling can benefit a gratitude, positivity or self-care practice, it can help us get anxious thoughts out of our head and on to paper.one of the main benefits is that journaling helps you work on having a deeper understanding of your triggers so that you are more prepared on how to deal with them, says celeste viciere, a licensed mental health clinicial.if youre feeling blocked looking at a blank page, try guided journaling, or google journal prompts for anxiety and youll find tons of cues to get you started.log (and dispute) the bad thoughtsyou can also use a journal to log and refute anxious thoughts.write your anxious thought down, e.g. i am a loser. then refute that thought, e.g. it is true that i have indeed lost many things before, but i have also won and succeeded at many things, says dr. nancy irwin, a psychologist with seasons in malibu. the more you log these anxious thoughts and respond to them in a logical fashion, the less of those unhelpful thoughts you will have. your brain starts to short-circuit the unnecessary thoughts, and you begin having fewer and less severe anxious thoughts.do some art: discipline downshifts the nervous systemone of licensed professional counselor essence cohen fields top recommendations to clients dealing with anxious thoughts is to express themselves through art.take up a new instrument, paint or write poetry, she says. focusing on an activity that requires discipline allows you to channel your anxiety and excessive energy into something more useful.you can even engage in something very simple, like coloring.adult coloring books [and apps] are great for relieving anxiety. or make some homemade play-doh or a glitter jar, say goldberg. the sensory experience is great for downshifting your nervous system.create positive alternatives to worrying unknownsanxiety tends to make people feel like there is one thought or conscious stream of thoughts that has only one answer to a problem, notes cummins. the goal with anxious thoughts is to assess the thoughts that are the loudest, and create alternative thoughts that are productive. for example, are you stuck on worry or concern that is negative? if you come up with positive alternatives, you access the ability to link your emotion to positive alternative thoughts.create a mantra that soothes the anxietywhen we get in our heads, we worry a lot about the what ifs, says evanye lawson, licensed professional counselor. when we get in that space it gets harder for us to take action or move forward, so one way to combat this is the tell yourself when this is over, i will be glad i did it, or it may be hard now, but it will get better or easier over time. i will keep trying.designate a friend who will just simply listenask a friend if they would be willing to sit with you on the phone or in person and let you speak about all the issues you have without trying to offer advice, their opinions or their judgments unless you ask for it, says lawson. if that friend says yes, then when you are in a moment where you need that friend, reach out to them by first asking if they are free to hold space for you while you tell them about the things making you anxious. your friend will automatically know what to do since you previously told them how you needed and now you can rest assured that you have support. remember consent is important in this tip.schedule worry timeone of the trickiest traits of anxiety is the sense of urgency it brings. remind yourself that youll have time for thinking later (when youre in a clearer state of mind), and schedule time to do just that.set aside a time during the day during which you give yourself permission to worry  you can even have a reminder in your calendar, says krimer. acknowledge that thinking will happen whether you like it or not, and some of it might be anxious. in the mean time, remember how good it will feel to turn those anxious thoughts into productivity and positive action. even doing something small and positive to address the underlying anxiety can have a profound effect on alleviating it. either way, youll feel as though youve done more than just worry.more tips for a better day9 things to do this morning to make your whole day more productive12 tips to master your kids morning routine and eliminate stressthe productivity hack that allowed me to accomplish more in less time15 protein-packed breakfasts that can help curb cravingswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

change can be a good thing.this is the sort of quote we hear often when were gearing up for a transition in our lives that is sure to challenge our routines. perhaps were starting a diet or incorporating a new exercise plan into our regimen. maybe the change is more intensive, like switching jobs, going back to school or relocating to a new city.whatever the change is and no matter how much we consciously accept or even welcome it, we may find ourselves struggling to adjust or acclimate. change can be good, sure, but it can also feel bad.why is this? part of it comes down to our brains resistance to change, a response system that has been built in us over the course of many years.our brain is trained to favor familiaritywhen were born, our brain is completely malleable and experiencing new things all the time, says santosh kesari, md, phd, neurologist, neuro-oncologist and neuroscientist. were figuring out positive and negative behaviors, what is good for survival and avoiding consequences that would cause even short-term pain. as we age, our brain learns ways to do things that make us do certain things, and behaving accordingly to each context and each stimulus.essentially our brains learn what works and what doesnt early on. this is great on one hand, because it means we dont have to keep relearning positive behaviors. but the downside is that the brain gets used to doing certain things in a certain way so that over time, introducing new behavioral modes becomes challenging.emotionally and cognitively and executively the brain has established a lot of pathways, says dr. sanam hafeez, a licensed clinical psychologist and neuropsychologist. the more you do something the more ingrained it becomes in neural pathways, much like how a computer that stores the sites you visit  when you log onto your browser, they will pop up because you use them a lot. change is an upheaval of many things and the brain has to work to fit it into an existing framework.your brain is protective to a faultwhen we introduce any change of routine into our lives, our brain is also on guard and ready to pounce, immediately considering the possible threat change can carry.from an evolutionary standpoint we develop these neural pathways to adapt to live, so when we encounter change our brain shifts into a protective mode, says hafeez. it has to use energy from reserves and it doesnt know, from that evolutionary standpoint, if the change is good for us or not. it doesnt know if this change is a one-time deal or whether it needs to re-establish a routine. will it hurt me? a lot of red flags go up.if youre naturally aggressive and you have to change that angry behavior, that may be a struggle, while someone naturally relaxed who say, has to go through a legal battle may have to shift gears, hafeez says. so much is involved.you can and should teach your brain to get used to changethough change is naturally more difficult as we age, its beneficial to our cognitive health to stimulate and encourage it.you absolutely can and should teach your brain to change, says hafeez, noting that keeping the brain agile has been shown to help delay aging. ive done quite a bit of work on the aging process and slowing that down. it starts with changing the aversion to change.additionally, if you stretch your brain past its comfort zone, youre opening the door to being receptive to other types of change.do cognitive rehabilitation exercises  the gym for your brainso how do we do get our stubborn brains to open up to change? first we should consider cognitive rehabilitation exercises.this is like going to the gym for your brain, explains hafeez, who champions the sites lumosity and braintrain. hafeez clarifies that she has no affiliation with these sites but recommends them on a regular basis.these sites have visual, spatial and memory exercises. i say do them three times a week or 15 minutes day, she says. get into a regimen. you will get frustrated, but that means its working  just like how your muscles are sore after you take time off from the gym and return. youve been out of touch with this for a while, but the more you do it, the more your memory of how to do it come back.learn a new language or a task that is out of your comfort zoneyou should also expose yourself to new situations and pick up skills that you may have never before considered. again, the idea is to get out of the comfort zones where weve gotten rusty in or ways.lets say youre a financial planer who takes up knitting, says hafeez. that is doing something very different, where the brain truly has to adapt new neural pathways. learning a new skill like this have been shown to ward off dementia, aging and cognitive decline because it regenerates cellular activity. learn a new language in middle age. you tax your brain by shaking things up and its effective for your body in the way hiit is for your body.the more you change, the more confident youll bedoing something you never thought you would do, or could do, should also help build your confidence to enable you to be more receptive of other, less controlled changes.most people wont try something new because theyre deathly afraid of failing, notes hafeez. when you see that something is doable it makes you more receptive and brave. theres that emotional, therapeutic factor that is separate from the neural pathway factor. over the years, we learn to succeed by viewing our previous failures and successes in a certain light and as we get older we lose sight of that. when you try a new thing it makes you more confident to try to do more new things.more in the your brain on serieswhat happens to your brain when you go on a dietthis is your brain on prayer and meditationhow to train your brain to be more optimisticyour weird dreams actually make a lot of sense (according to neuroscience and psychology)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as sweater weather sets in, so does the desire for comfort foods. while edible comfort may bring back cozy memories, classic homey foods, such as cheesy casseroles, creamy soups and freshly baked goods dont exactly help you stay healthy. that doesnt mean you have to avoid your favorite dishes. the trick is to find lightened-up alternatives that still supply plenty of satisfaction without all the excess. here are 15 dietitian-approved options thatll keep you warm and cozy all winter.cheesy chicken broccoli quinoa bakemost cheesy casseroles pack in the cheese. and i mean pack! this one keeps things light while still providing all the gooey-ness youd expect by mixing the cheese with plain greek yogurt. then its topped with a little more cheese and some whole wheat breadcrumbs to provide that delicious golden-baked look that we all drool over!though this recipe is insanely straightforward, it includes plenty of pro tips, including swaps (like frozen broccoli for fresh) to keep things weeknight-easy.slow cooker chicken sloppy joe slidersordinarily, sloppy joes have a lot of added sugar from various sources, including ketchup worcestershire sauce, and brown sugar. this version skips all that and keeps things sweet with the optional dates, instead. plus, youll get bonus nutrition in the bun: it uses sweet potato rounds instead of the typical fluffy white ones. but if that sounds a little too sloppy, you could always use the sloppy joe filling to stuff the baked sweet potatoes instead. either way, youre sure to find plenty of comfort here.3-ingredient spinach artichoke dipif youve got 10 minutes, you can whip up a batch of this classic dip, which skips a lot of the traditional ingredients, like cream cheese and sour cream, that dont show your body any love. (the healthfulness of the spinach and artichokes are offset by the blend of cheeses.) of course, a healthy dip only gets you so far. the dunkers matter, too! stay on the right track with healthy dunkers, such as red pepper strips or whole grain crackers or tortilla chips.brussels sprouts &amp; butternut squash pizza with goat cheesethis pizza is a great seasonal choice thanks to some farmers market finds. with a whole grain crust and veggie toppings, it has about twice as much fiber as a typical thin crust slice. plus, the particular veggies used here, which include butternut squash, mushrooms, and red onion, have prebiotic fiberthe type that nourish the friendly bacteria in the gut. studies suggest that by upping the balance of healthy bacteria, these fibers can help keep our immune system strong and protect against potentially harmful invaders. a pizza that protects? yes, please!very veggie bean chiliif you want to sink your fork into chili all winter long, bookmark this vegan, gluten- and grain-free recipe. if youre ambivalent about the long ingredient list, dont be. many get poured straight from a can. and dont be ambivalent about a plant-based chili, either! science suggests that meat lovers will find plenty of satisfaction from this hearty meal, thanks to the addition of portobello mushrooms. portobellos are considered rich in umamia full-bodied flavor sensation thats sometimes described as meaty. in one study, participants rated both red meat and mushrooms as equally satisfying, suggesting a plant-based option is just as filling. you can take comfort in that!grilled zucchini lasagna with vodka saucetraditional lasagna is made from white pasta noodles. in this twist, thinly sliced zucchini replaces the noodles, lightening the carb and calorie counts. though youll need a little patience to wait for it to bake (it takes 40 minutes of hands off time), the end result will be worth it!instant pot chicken tortilla soup recipesoup is a meal that feeds the soul and this instant pot version will feed your belly in 30 minutes flat. with black beans and sweet potatoes, its an immune-boosting meal that can also provide comfort if you happen to wind up sick. hot liquids, including soups, have been shown to help you clear mucous more quickly than cold sips, and the flavors in this dish make it a delicious way to stay hydrated.whole wheat lemon blueberry muffinswith all purpose flour and plenty of sugar, most muffins are closer to cupcakes than healthy fare. these are made better by using less sugar and butter, along with white whole wheat floura whole grain alternative to all purpose. if you bake up a batch of minis, as shown here, your comfort food fix will clock in under 100 calories.no flour black bean browniesone bite of these brownies will make you forget all about the black beans they contain. but the pantry staple provides a lot of goodness for your body. black beans are one of the top sources of antioxidantsnutrients that offer head-to-toe protection against compounds that destabilize our cells and leave us at risk for certain diseases. black beans also supply calcium, potassium, magnesium, and ironminerals that many americans fall short on. and just in case you need another reason to sink your teeth into these rich, chocolatey brownies, they provide 3 grams of fiber to nourish your gut.grilled cheese with avocado and sun dried tomatoesmaybe its just me but grilled cheese feels like the ultimate comfort food. however, when its made in the traditional waywith loads of butter and cheese between two slices of fluffy white breadit doesnt score many nutritional points. a few swaps and healthy add-ins can turn that around. the key is to start with fiber-rich, whole grain bread. use a bold-flavored cheese, like swiss or cheddar, which keeps your taste buds happy, even if you use a little less. this version brings more nutrition to your grilled cheese by layering in avocado, which in addition to keeping things extra creamy, also brings vitamins and minerals along for the ride.more better-for-you recipes13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonighthealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for youfall recipes to add to your menu right nowwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

we all have that friend whos got her (or his) life together. she has a great job. hes got a loving partner. she works out. he makes his own yogurt. and the cherry on top: she tutors disadvantaged 2nd-graders twice a week.whats her secret? experts say it might in fact be that time your friend sets aside for volunteering.theres quite a bit of work on the benefits of volunteering, probably because in some ways its sort of the perfect activity, says nancy morrow-howell, msw, phd, director of the harvey a. friedman center for aging and a professor of social policy at brown school of social work at washington university in st. louis, who researches the health benefits of volunteering.it seems to produce health for the volunteer. and its contributing to the greater social good, because generally volunteers are working with organizations on some sort of social mission, she says. its a win-win.studies have linked volunteering with better mental health, including more life satisfaction, having a stronger sense of purpose, having greater self-esteem, having a sense of increased personal control, having less social isolation, having slower cognitive decline, and showing fewer depressive symptoms.and evidence suggests volunteering has benefits for physical health, too.a 2013 study analyzed data from 1,654 individuals who participated in the 2006 and 2010 waves of the national health and retirement study that asked questions about volunteering and measured participants blood pressure when the survey was conducted and four years later. controlling for things like age, gender, ethnicity, education and other factors, the individuals who reported volunteering at least 200 hours in the 12 months leading up to the survey had a 40 percent lower risk of having high blood pressure four years later than those that had volunteered less.(in these types of studies volunteering is usually defined as some sort of service or helping activity done in a discretionary way outside of the home organized by an agency, morrow-howell says.)to date, were not aware of studies linking volunteering with yogurt-making ability. but the point is that volunteering may increase well-being overall because it usually increases activity across the board, from physical activity to social activity to cognitive activity, morrow-howell says.and other evidence suggests that being engaged in all of those different areas promotes both physical and emotional health, she adds.different roles, of course, are more socially engaging than others. others are more cognitively challenging or physically stimulating. youll get something out of each of those roles. but the theory would suggest that the more the work covers all of those bases (keeping you moving, socially engaged and mentally challenged), the more benefit you might (theoretically) get.unfortunately finding such an opportunity that checks all of those boxes and fits into your schedule may not be straightforward to find. but its certainly not impossible, morrow-howell and others say.when it comes to volunteering, too much choice may be counterproductivegoogle volunteer opportunities and youll likely come across several national and local opportunities or resources that help place volunteers.those resources can be great for connecting rising volunteers with projects that fit their schedule and need them, morrow-howell says. but for some the sheer volume of choice can be overwhelming.(in new york city, for example, someone can search volunteer projects by day of the week, time of day, subway line, and type of work, using certain databases. its great for finding that project thats exactly what youre looking for  as long as you know exactly what youre looking for to begin with.)behavioral economics theory pretty clearly shows that to help people make better choices more easily, dont overwhelm people with choices, morrow-howell explains. we do just the opposite in volunteering. we throw a ga-zillion options at people thinking that everybody needs a lot of choice.and while its good to give volunteers choices that make volunteering their time and energy convenient, its also important to recognize that that much choice can overwhelm people and make it harder to find something that truly resonates, morrow-howell says.5 tips for finding volunteer work that doesnt feel anything like workthe point is  especially if you find yourself wanting to volunteer your time but having trouble finding something that you can stick with  maybe changing your tactics could help. here are a few tips from morow-howell and others:1. do it with a friendthat same decision-making theory that says we get overwhelmed by too many choices says that people are much more likely to do something if others around around them are participating, says morrow-howell. that means youll be much more motivated to actually leave the office early for that youth mentoring program if youre headed out with a co-worker or meeting a friend there.2. start small, go slow and let it growdont jump into a thrice-a-week commitment right away, morrow-howell says. volunteer a day at a time, going back because you want to. as you develop relationships with the people there, more opportunities to get more involved will likely show up more naturally (and you may find the time commitment doesnt seem so overwhelming).3. find a cause you care aboutif you care about the cause youre giving back to, youre much more likely to feel good about the time youre donating and keep doing it, says victoria king, community outreach coordinator with volunteers of america in the southeast louisiana region.finding something meaningful can be as easy as identifying skills and abilities that you can bring to the table, along with a group or organization that needs those things, king says. key is finding someone that needs what you have to offer, she says.and speaking of what you have to offer4. do something you loveare you a musician? is there somewhere you can donate your time and skill (like a local senior center)? do you love to cook? is there a local soup kitchen that might need help? the extent to which a role is very engaging, fulfilling and purposeful to a person is important, morrow-howell says.5. check local websites and national onesheres where those volunteer matching programs and huge databases (like volunteers of america or volutneermatch) may be helpful. if you have an activity in mind, a resource that can connect you to an organization or group of people who might benefit from your skills may be extremely helpful.but if you can, try a few different opportunities out to figure out which one is the best fit, morrow-howell says.more from bettera daily ritual that will help you de-stresshow to relax and tap into a zen feeling almost immediatelyhow to bounce back from headline stress disorderwhy the simple act of being in nature helps you de-stresswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

somehow, we are now under the impression that how busy we are is supposed to equate how successful we are. a recent study in the journal of consumer research argues a busy and overworked lifestyle, rather than a leisurely lifestyle, has become an aspirational status symbol. theres even money in it: time saving devices (your smartphone) and services (any grocer that will deliver you food), can trigger inferences of busyness and status, regardless of how busy one truly is, says the study.lauren berger, founder of careerqueen.com, became determined to write get it together: ditch the chaos, do the work and design your success because she was sick of hearing people boast about how busy they were.i felt like there was this false connection between how busy you were and how successful you were, and this isnt true, says berger. its hard because work and life are so enmeshed these days, but i wanted to tell people you dont have to be busy all the time to be successful. its about you being in control of your day and how you spend your time, finding what works for you and being intentional about your day and routine.we likely have more time than we think we docase in point: when we have pockets of unscheduled time, we dont always know what to do with ourselves. a recent eight-test study from the journal of consumer research examined whether unscheduled time before a scheduled task during the work day changes how people perceive and use their time. they found people tend to perceive they have less time than they actually do, get less done as a result and are less likely to take on extended time tasks during those unscheduled pockets that could potentially make them more money.berger described always feeling behind the 8-ball, and that her calendar was controlling her, instead of the other way around. thats why preparation is a big part of bergers prescriptive m.o. in get it together, she helps readers consider how attending to small details, like picking out your clothes, packing your gym bag and making to-do lists the night before, can improve their lives and routines. i think being hyper-aware of the small wins the things that make you feel like you have it together, she says. being prepared gives you confidence.reclaiming wasted timean integral part of this is figuring out how to schedule your day in a way that allows for your humanity. corporate culture tells us that we need to be avail 24/7, says berger. its up to the employers to change their mentality, because people are too stressed and theyre cracking. and employees are going to have to set boundaries and not put up with it.part of this is unplugging and when it comes to unplugging, berger practices what she preaches. she recently took her work email off of her phone and enacted a hard stop to her work day. my friends give me guilt about being a ceo and not being connected all the time. i hope to give people the confidence to say no and not be on the phone and eat dinner, she says.berger says her methods have enabled her to be more engaged and present when she is working, and the benefits have trickled down in unexpected ways. theres something very beneficial about handling emails when youre in the mindset of working, and not when youre trying to relax, she explains. i got a rejection email the other day  as ceo, i get them every day. because i took my email off of my phone and saw the email during my workday, i was able to respond in a sophisticated, professional way. two months ago, when i still had everything connected, i wouldve seen the email before i went to bed and wouldnt have slept.knowing when to disconnect can improve efficiency  both in and out of the office. for this reason, berger insists her employees unplug during their weekly planning meetings. we used to have meetings that would go on for hours, and people would go off on tangents. now, we have a closed computer policy and its cut our meetings down to 20 minutes, she says.she also insists employees draft agendas before meetings. just the simple act of planning for the conversation can help you take control of your time, she says. this also extends to goal-setting, which is the focus of a chapter in her book and another part of bergers success strategy. you should have your top three goals memorized and shout them from the rooftops, she says. breaking them down into an actionable plan is just as important.when planning for success, one must also consider the possibility of failure. berger says the most constructive way to deal with failure is to know how youre likely to cope, and figure out how to stay productive while coping. when things go wrong, the show must go on. this extends to the workplace. its so important to know what works for you, and activate that solution. if i let a failure derail my entire day, ive created seven more problems. if i go on to the next thing on my list, i can circle back and cope when im in a clear head space, says berger.how to be productive instead of busyto be more productive during your workday, berger recommends you:find your focus. with so many notifications and alarms going off, workdays are filled with distractions that can derail our productivity. berger recommends committing to whatever it takes to stay on task. if you have to throw your phone across the room or put on headphones to tune out distractions, so be it, she says.dont work blindly. when you set about doing a task, do so with specific intention, says berger. dont just sit down to answer emails  five hours can pass. instead, berger recommends approaching emails or other tasks with an action plan considering a desired outcome.align your to-do list with your calendar. by blocking out time on your calendar to tackle to-dos, you wont be derailed by meetings and lingering action items.though some of these solutions seem like common sense, sometimes it helps to be reminded that the devil can be in the details. unless you plan for that, of course.more tips for a better day9 things to do this morning to make your whole day more productive12 tips to master your kids morning routine and eliminate stressthe productivity hack that allowed me to accomplish more in less time15 protein-packed breakfasts that can help curb cravingswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the holidays are swiftly approaching. and after digging into your kids halloween stash and treating yourself to a pumpkin spice latte your taste buds are primed for a season of fun.are you hoping to come out the other side of the holiday season without some extra baggage? while weve all heard the scary claims that the the average weight gain this season is upwards of 10 pounds, studies show that its more like one pound if youre not already overweight (and closer to five if youre already overweight). but whats more disheartening is how long it takes to lose it: one study in the new england journal of medicine found that it can take more than five months, which means we are still haunted by our holiday choices come bathing suit season  if you lose it at all (which unfortunately, many of us dont.)we get it: between holiday parties, cookie trays in the office and less-than-healthy favorites making a frequent appearance on the menu, it feels like were set up for failure. whats more, in addition to all of the tempting treats we have to navigate over the next few months, our schedule becomes increasingly packed with errands, social obligations and end-of-year deadlines at work, meaning fitness is often pushed to the back burner.luckily, there are some ways to squeeze in a workout (and burn off some of those extra calories) that dont require carving a ton of extra time out of your busy schedule. case in point: this kitchen workout.made up of exercises that will help build muscle and burn fat (all while cooking up your favorite holiday dishes), this full-body workout will help get you through the holidays the same weight you entered it.gliding side lungeequipment: a paper platehow-to: put your right foot onto a paper plate on a hard surfaced floor. glide the right foot out to the right, bending the knee and keeping the left leg straight. press down through the right heel to pull the leg back to center, working the inner thigh. as you glide out, youre working the right outer hip, glute and thigh. as you glide in, youre engaging your core and your inner thighs for a full-lower body workout move! repeat 10 times on each leg.ab attackequipment: 2 paper plateshow-to: drop into a plank position with each foot on top of a paper plate. pull the abs in and bring the right foot diagonally across your body so that your right knee is coming up towards your left shoulder. return to the starting position, and bring the left knee and foot across the body diagonally. repeat 10 times per leg.spooning push upequipment: a spoonhow-to: come down into a plank position with a spoon in front of you. pick up the spoon with the right hand so that youre in a one-arm plank. hold for three seconds, then put the spoon down and do a mini push-up. next, pick up the spoon with the left hand and hold for three seconds. put the spoon down and do a mini-push up. repeat 5 times on each side.cross body milk balanceequipment: a half-gallon of milkhow-to: stand up and grab your milk jug. go back into the side lunge (this time without the paper plate underneath your foot!) and reach the milk down to the right. come back through center, bring the right knee up, and lift the milk up overhead. repeat 10 times to the right, and then switch sides.calf raisesequipment: nonehow-to: while stirring your gravy or sauce, get ready to work the lower legs and your balance. standing upright, simply come up onto your tip toes and then lower down. even doing this 20 times for 3 repetitions will help sculpt the lower legs and build joint stability around the ankles!oven squatsequipment: nonehow-to: when youre taking things in and out of the oven, turn this into an obstacle course for yourself. once the timer goes off, do 10 squats before taking the dish out of the oven. similarly, before you put a pan into the oven, make a deal with yourself to do 10 squats first. on average, if you do 100 squats in about 5 minutes youll burn almost 50 calories!microwave side raisesequipment: nonehow-to: while waiting for corn or vegetables to heat up in the microwave, stand up tall and lift one leg out to the side and do some leg raises. this will work your gluteus medius, an important part of your core and a stabilizer for your legs thats often neglected. youll also help to firm your booty on the side of the hip to get a nice, well-rounded glute. do this 10 times on one side, and then repeat on the other side.ta-da! in the same amount of time it takes to cook up dinner for your family, youve also checked a workout off your to-do list!try these fitness routines10 core exercises that are better for your back (and body) than crunches5 exercises you can perform anywhere, anytimea 10-minute cardio workout you can do at home5 exercises that will strengthen your back and reduce pain8 exercises trainers never do (and what to do instead)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

names: bill and elena rodriguezages: bill, 57; elena, 48residence: roseau, minnesotajobs: bill works as a design lead for polaris industries; elena works for marvin windows and doorsfamily status: married with two adult children and four grandchildren under age 8elenas peak weight: 237 pounds, a tight size 16. the seams of my pants were screaming, she says.elenas current weight: 150 pounds, size 6elenas height: 5 feet 6 inchesbills peak weight: 223 poundsbills current weight: 180 pounds (he got down to 172 but elena felt he was too skinny)bills height: 5 feet 10 incheswhen elena and bill rodriguez committed to losing weight together, they wanted to try something new. elena had struggled with her weight for almost 30 years, beginning with her first pregnancy, when bedrest and a battle with depression sent her weight shooting up from 120 to more than 200 pounds. she gained and lost weight over the years, ultimately peaking at 237 pounds.for bill, a creeping sedentary lifestyle coupled with poor eating habits drove his weight gain. were empty nesters. once the kids got out of the house we started eating out more. not that we were eating badly, but we shouldnt have had such big portions, he says. as you get older your system starts slowing down, and with that your weight starts going up. its such a gradual thing you dont really notice it. then you see a picture of yourself and think, wow, my face really filled in.when bill spotted a coworker who had lost a lot of weight, he asked how he did it. it turned out he had joined the profile by sanford program.elena was dubious at first. i thought, oh, its just another weight-loss plan. ive tried them all. if there was a diet i tried it, she says. im 48 and my goal was to lose weight by the age of 40. that never happened  i had let myself down. everything else had failed. i was at the last straw. i felt like if this doesnt work, nothing will, she says.in april 2017 they decided to give it a shot, together. the plan cost them each $150 for a year. for elena, the price motivated her to stick with it. she committed to following the plan without cheating  that way, she figured, if she didnt lose weight she could ask for her money back.a hard look at food choicesbill and elena changed their diets in the first three to four months on profile, and stuck with those changes. fatty, fried, and junk foods were out, replaced by profiles shakes, bars, and soups, lots of raw and steamed vegetables, and tons of water.they give you a shopping list of items to go look for to make your meals. it really just teaches you to eat better, bill says. the couple cooked together and encouraged each other. while profile supports a range of food choices, bill and elena eventually moved to a vegetarian, then vegan, diet. we looked into different reasons we gain weight, and even foods that are considered to be good foods drive weight gain, bill says.connecting with supportfor elena, what made the difference this time was accountability. first, they committed to losing weight as a couple. i think the fact that we did it together was a key factor, and that the things we changed really fit well with us, bill says. elena notes that trying to lose weight together with bill brought out her competitive side.second, the plan includes a smart scale that measures and records weight, body fat, hydration, muscle and bone.and third, the plan includes coaching. i felt pretty high-class having a coach, elena says. profiles coaches connect with members regularly in person or via skype or phone to talk about how theyre doing. if youre really craving something, or if you were starving or felt a specific way, theyll say, well, try eating this or doing this. you can make these simple little adjustments to fill that void youre feeling, bill says.elena worked with a few coaches, and says that while they were all great, she clicked with ashleigh ackley. it felt like she knew me. she knew my story, my struggles, my anxieties. i felt like i could tell her everything and she always had a solution. she would say, try this and see if this works, and if i wasnt ready to do something that was ok. it was like i had a teammate who wasnt going to let me fail. she built me up and thats much of the reason this is still working. she really ingrained in me opportunities and options. she showed me how to rely on things that worked. a lot of the weight situation is really emotional for me, and she kept building me up, pumping into my head that its ok and its going to work, she says.ackley calls coaching the backbone of the program. everyone is different, but there are always outside temptations and challenges, she says. we guide members. we dont tell them what to do. we help them have success.most coaching sessions start with a review of the previous week  looking back at what went well and what was challenging. they then look forward to the upcoming week to spot challenges. for example, there might be travel planned, or sports events with tempting concessions, or weeknights at home fighting a snacking habit.ackley recalls helping elena plan for a work event. they talked about elenas goals  did she want to indulge there, or make healthier choices from what was available, or bring her own foods? what foods will they have, and what are their serving sizes? planning ahead of time helps people enjoy the events in their lives without sabotaging their weight-loss goals.seeing health improvementsbill and elena want to be around to watch their four grandchildren grow up. elenas father was only 66 when he passed away after a stroke, and he had had high blood pressure and diabetes. i have grandchildren now. i dont want to be old and miserable. i want to enjoy my life. i dont want to put my kids through loss, and i dont want to enhance the possibility of dying, she says.their weight loss has led to improvements in their health. while they both battled high blood pressure, they have healthy levels now, and elena no longer needs medication to control hers. shes also seen improvement in vitiligo, a skin condition that causes loss of pigment. they expect that their healthier diets will reduce their likelihood of developing diabetes.their weight loss has brought a financial benefit as well. they get a discount on their health insurance if they meet certain criteria for body mass index, blood pressure and other health markers. not only are we healthier, now we qualify for that discount, bill says.a boost in activityin the past, elena and bill walked a local 5k event. this year, they ran it together for the first time. bill has added strength training to his routine. given my age, i have to start working on building more muscle. when youre building muscle, you tend to burn fat more efficiently, he says. with a sedentary lifestyle you get that muscle atrophy.outside of workouts, their grandchildren keep them active, biking alongside them while they run. bill has even joined them skateboarding. thats something i wouldnt have considered doing, as heavy as i was, he says. they also paddleboard most weekends when the weather is good.maintaining successelena and bill met their weight-loss goals and also learned how to cope with temporary setbacks. for example, elena tends to gain a few pounds when she travels. and when they remodeled their house they couldnt cook at home. ashley taught me that this is ok, and this is what we need to do to get back on track, elena says.elena says, i feel better from the ground up. even our sex life is better. profile has redefined who i am  my body and my spirit.bill and elenas typical daybreakfast: a nectarine and an apple with a protein shake, or oatmeal with stevia and maybe a bananalunch: salad with salsa for dressing, pasta, or stir-fried or steamed vegetables, with quinoa, edamame, almonds or beans for proteindinner: bean soup with avocado or a vegan pizzasnacks: dairy-free yogurt with a piece of fruit, chopped veggies, sometimes homemade popcorn70 percent of what we eat is vegetable-driven, bill says. in the morning, we plan out our meals for the day and cut up all kinds of vegetables  cucumbers, carrots, radishes, snap peassometimes 10 different vegetables.more weight-loss success storieshow a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

in theory, mornings should signify a fresh start. after all, every day the sun rises is a brand-new opportunity to tackle your to-dos and work toward your goals. but lets be real: most mornings are rushed, chaotic, and anything but productive. we wake up, hit snooze several times, then begin a madcap dash around the house to find a missing shoe while trying to chug a (too hot) cup of coffee.fortunately, mornings dont need to be that way. we asked productivity and wellness experts for the strategies and tools that they use to start their days off right. below are the tips and tricks that anyone  even the sleepiest night owls  can use to start their day on a more productive and healthier note. ready to re-make your morning routine? read on.better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.\"what the most successful people do before breakfast,\" by laura vanderkam, $11, amazonif you want to improve your morning routine, consider this short book required reading. learning to use mornings well is, in our distracted world, what separates achievement from madness, says productivity expert and author laura vanderkam. in this book, she uses both real-life anecdotes and scientific research to show how high-achievers use the early morning hours to improve their careers, health, and personal life  before the rest of us are even eating a bagel.rca digital alarm clock, $10, amazonusing a good old-fashioned alarm clock might just revolutionize your mornings. your alarm shouldnt have your email on it, vanderkam explains. its too easy to turn off the alarm on your phone and quickly see whats come in  but then you can get sucked in and lose time that might be better spent on other things. make your alarm clock as dumb as possible, she suggests  and then see how much time you save.the five minute journal, $23, amazonmelody j. wilding, a therapist and coach who works with high-achieving entrepreneurs, suggests starting each day by setting an intention soon after you wake up. ask yourself, what one thing, if accomplished, would help me feel like today was a success?this journal, dubbed as the simplest way to start your day happy, can help you do just that. each page begins with an inspirational quote, then prompts you to jot down a few things youre grateful, a daily intention, and what would make your day great.stanley classic vacuum pint, $20, amazonyour body was asleep for 7 or 8 hours  it needs water, stat! jeff sanders, productivity expert and author of the 5 am miracle, says, i wake up every morning and drink a liter of water while walking my dog, just before i brew my americano. while you dont have to drink a full liter, keeping an insulated bottle, like this one from stanley, by your bed can serve as a helpful reminder to rehydrate before coffee.mychelle refining sugar cleanser, $18, amazonhelp your skin wake up with this vanilla-infused multi-tasking cleanser that laura lea bryant, a certified holistic chef and cookbook author, swears by. i am obsessed with this facial scrub, she says. it smells like heaven, feels amazing on my skin, and i truly feel like it helps my skin glow.kiehls powerful-strength line-reducing concentrate, starting at $22, nordstromanother tip for streamlining your morning? pick multipurpose products. this beauty serum from kiehls brightens up your complexion while working to reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles. i spend a lot of time on video calls, so i need to look natural and camera ready without much fuss, wilding says. after only a few days of using this serum, i could visibly notice a difference in my skins brightness. healthier skin and less makeup? win-win.brooks ghost 10 womens running shoes, starting at $54, amazonnot only will a morning workout will boost your endorphins, making you feel happier the rest of the day, but studies also show that youll burn more fat if you work out before you eat breakfast. score! another good reason to exercise in the a.m., according to vanderkam: you only have to shower once!as a runner, vanderkam turns to these brooks running shoes for her daily jogs. shes now gone through several pairs, changing them out every 500 miles.dobby be free knicker, $64, athletaanother must-have item that helps vanderkam get up and out for her a.m. workout: leggings that hold everything you need to hit the ground running. i like these tights that have a back zip pocket for keys and id, and side pockets big enough to hold a phone  and energy gels if youre running far enough, she says.vega protein and greens, $27, amazonchocolate for breakfast? absolutely, when it comes along with protein and greens  and no added sugar. this protein powder provides 20g of vegan protein, as well as nutrients from organic alfalfa powder, broccoli powder, and kale powder.adding protein powder to a smoothie can be an easy way to give your breakfast a healthy boost, says keri gans, ms, rdn, cdn, nutritionist and author of the small change diet. throw a few pieces of frozen fruit, a cup of almond milk, and two scoops of this in a blender, and voila  breakfast is ready.quaker quick 1-minute oats, $8.53, amazonquick-cooking oats are a fast, easy, and healthy breakfast, gans says. these oats provide 4 grams of heart-healthy fiber and 4 grams of filling protein. plus, they couldnt be more convenient  just cook in the cup, grab, and go. add non-fat or low-fat milk instead of water to provide more protein, and add a healthy fat, such as almond butter, gans suggests. both of these simple additions may help you stay full until lunch.keurig k select coffee maker, $130, amazonprefer to stick with classic java? this coffee maker simplifies the process, so all you have to do a touch a button to brew a perfect cup every time. choose your k-cup, select your strength and then your favorite coffee, tea, or iced beverage is ready in less than a minute. the water reservoir holds 52 ounces of water, so theres no need to refill every morning.baloray lunch bag, $13, amazondecision fatigue is real. this concept stems from having to make too many little decisions during the day  before the big ones that really matter. cut back on the many choices you have to make in the morning  and sustain mental energy  by picking out your outfits, prepping your lunch and slotting appointments in your calendar the night before, wilding suggests.thats where this stylish and functional lunchbox comes in handy. its insulated and has plenty of room for a sandwich, snacks, and a drink. pack it the night before, so you wont have to worry about it in the a.m.get our best picks for kids lunchboxes here.stand steady standing desk, $180, amazonfinally, its time to get down to business. standing for the first half of my workday keeps me energized and focused, wilding says. this standing desk allows you to adjust from sitting to standing as needed, giving you the flexibility to be comfortable all day long. even though using a standing desk wont burn a crazy amount of calories (only about 50), some studies do suggest that workers are more productive when using a sit-to-stand desk, like this one.more pro shopping tipsthe best workout shoes for women, according to fitness expertsgear and gadgets that will take your workout to the next levelthe best cleaning products, according to the prosbest moisturizers for dry skin, according to these dermatologistswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its a financial decision many american families face as their children get older: does building up the college fund or saving for retirement take priority?t. rowe price asked a thousand parents what they would do, as part of its annual parents, kids &amp; money survey, and 74 percent said saving for college was the higher priority for them.stuart ritter, a senior financial planner at t. rowe price, says thats an understandable, but well-intentioned miscalculation.im not suggesting that you dont save at all for your kids college and only save for retirement or vice versa; this is not all or nothing, ritter said. its about prioritizing and that means putting the majority of your money towards retirement, while still saving for college.it makes sense that college is top-of-mind for parents as their kids get older, especially these days as the higher education costs are skyrocketing. but personal finance experts contacted by nbc news better all agreed on the need for perspective: college is typically four years, your retirement may last 20 years or longer.college is typically four years, your retirement may last 20 years or longer.i think its a classic example of put your own oxygen mask on yourself before you help the person next to you, even if that person is your kid, said mandi woodruff, executive editor at the financial advice website magnifymoney. i would certainly say for parents who are cash-strapped to focus on your own retirement nest egg first and foremost.limited options for funding retirementpersonal savings are key to having the lifestyle you want in retirement. while there are various ways to pay for college  including scholarships, grants, loans and work-study  the options for building up that nest egg are limited.as parents, we tend to want to do everything we can to help our children succeed, but sometimes we focus on the present at the expense of the future, said andrea coombes, investing expert at nerdwallet, a financial advice website.if you delay contributing to your retirement savings in order to fund college, you could run out of money in your golden years. what then? many parents assume their grown-up kids will be there to help.a recent survey by nerdwallet found that:almost a quarter of the parents saving for retirement (23 percent) expect their kids to provide them with some financial support after they retire.about one in six millennial parents saving for retirement (16 percent) said they expect their children to provide financial support for more than 30 percent of their retirement costs.coombes points out that relying on your children to help finance your retirement can jeopardize their independence and financial welfare.at that point, your kids might be raising their own children and trying to put money in their kids college and save for their own retirement, so it kind of becomes a vicious cycle, she said.talk with your kidsparents are often reluctant to discuss family finances with their kids, but financial advisers say its important to have the college money talk.and parents need to learn to say no to their children, said mark kantrowitz, an expert on college financing and publisher of savingforcollege.com. tell them youve saved a particular amount of money for their college education and that you can contribute so much money from your income, say a couple thousand dollars a year from income.prepare for that talk by determining the total family resources available to pay for college. this includes: savings, contributions from income, scholarships that have been won, a reasonable amount of student loan debt and possibly some parental borrowing.what is a reasonable amount of student loan debt? it should be less than your son or daughters annual starting salary at graduation, kantrowitz told nbc news better. if total debt is less than annual income, the graduate can afford to repay those student loans in 10 years or less.now, its time to see which colleges the family can afford. you do that by checking the four-year net price calculator at various schools. most will have these calculators on their websites and will help you narrow down the field to colleges that are within the ballpark of affordability. typically, the least-expensive option will be an in-state public school.if your total resources exceed the four-year net price of the college education, the college is affordable, you can afford to go there, and youll graduate with a reasonable amount of debt, kantrowitz said. but if your total resources fall short, you will have to borrow an unreasonable amount of money, in order to attend that college. and you should think about enrolling in a different college.the bottom linesaving for retirement is a real challenge. youre putting money aside for an event thats decades into the future, and you may have only a vague idea of how much money you need to save, said nerdwallets coombes.if you arent sure whether youre saving enough, various calculators, such as this one from nerdwallet, can help you figuring out how youre doing.more from better6 months to send-off: how to emotionally prepare your child for collegehow to take the stress out of saving for retirementhow to grow your savings fasterwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

i cant really afford this, but i love it  i really shouldnt have bought that, but i needed a pick me up  is this what a spending hangover feels like?sound familiar? turns out the majority of us  64 percent  regret our spending on short-term pleasures, including food, clothing, new cars, tech gadgets and vacations, according to a new study by schwab.specifically, we wish wed managed our spending better so that we could have put more money away for retirement. in fact, not having enough money for a comfortable retirement was the top source of money stress for those surveyed. with all of that rear-view mirror research, the question is: why dont we just stop? the answer, unfortunately, is complicated.a tight budget seems to bring about more impulse spending.it comes down to a failure to delay gratification and an inclination towards impulsivity, which occurs in all humans  but particularly (and ironically) among those whose budgets are already stretched thin, says psychiatrist mark tobak, md, and author of anyone can be rich! a psychiatrist provides the mental tools to build your wealth. a recent study by bankrate showed that the lowest earning americans (who earn less than $30,000 a year) spend 13 percent of their income on restaurant food, prepared drinks and lottery tickets  a higher percentage than any other income bracket.people who live on tight budgets are going to grasp at any pleasure they can find, in the hope of securing something for themselves in an unkind world, tobak says. moreover, although youd think feeling somewhat desperate financially would make people hoard cash, the reaction is often the opposite. with greater desperation comes a desire to take greater risk, and a lottery ticket is a greater risk than a savings account, he says.boredom  or the search for excitement  does the same.which is not to say that even people with plenty of money dont play the powerball. were all after that dopamine rush that comes from taking risks and spending money, toback says. even if you lose, you have all that excitement building up to the moment you win. not everyone gambling in vegas is poor. you have high rollers who drop millions.and the lottery isnt the only win were after. social media has also lured many of us down the path of spending money, enticing us to spend for the quick thrill of a like that comes when we post vacation pictures or snaps of our latest fashion acquisition. a recent social savings survey from ally bank showed that 74 percent of millennials say social media influences their shopping. this lavish social media lifestyle is influencing our spending and consumption behavior whether we realize it or not. the need to keep up with the joneses is a perpetual battle with ones finances, says diane morais, president of consumer &amp; commercial banking products for ally bank. from a psychological standpoint, social media has retrained our brains to be less inclined to seek long-term accomplishments as pleasure. weve grown so accustomed to the quick highs of positive online interactions, that the satisfied feeling we get when we save money may pale in comparison.if were so worried, why dont we change?in some cases, we may not know better. if you never learned how to manage money at home with your parents, and you never learned it in school, the idea of saving money can be something that never clicks. we may also doubt our abilities to make a meaningful difference on a modest budget.\"participants in the schwab study felt like $25 here or there wouldnt make a difference in the long run, says schwabs catherine golladay senior vice president of 401(k) participant services and administration. but time is your most valuable asset. putting even small amounts of money away over time can really add up, and the earlier you do it, the more youll benefit from compound interest.making a conscious shiftthe key to getting ahead of our impulses seems to lie in a) recognizing them and b) planning for them. we really try to focus our messages on a theme of money-mindfulness, and how important it is to understand the proper balance between saving, spending and budgeting, says morais.first, turn off your social media if thats what gets you to spend impulsively. or make a deal with yourself that there will be no more online shopping after the first glass of wine. and if you do get to the point of purchase, enforce a pause while you ask yourself these questions, says morais: am i on track with my savings goals or will this expenditure derail my plans? do i really need, and more importantly can i easily afford, this purchase? am i feeling impulsive? have i really thought this through?then turn your focus to automating savings  not just into 401(k) and other retirement accounts but into 529s, hsas and savings accounts for other goals  as a way to make an end-run around our impulses. if you save first, you can spend knowing youre already accomplishing your goals (as long as that spending doesnt drag you into debt.)finally, recognize that the sort of stuff we buy on impulse isnt the only way to use money to bring us joy. watching your bank account or retirement savings grow can be a gratifying experience, as can unlocking the front door to your new home.with kathryn tugglehow to save more moneycommon behaviors that stifle our retirement savingshow to avoid these common bank feeshow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayswhat you need to know about retirement at every agehow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

five years ago, tammy, 52, and dennis gray, 54, owed $65,000 in credit card debt and student loans. after their son and daughter went off to college, the empty nesters realized they wanted more from life than being in debt.we knew we needed to do something because it wasnt going to get better, tammy tells nbc news better.the pennsylvania couple say they tried different techniques, but nothing worked. we could never stay disciplined, says dennis, a pastor at a church in kingston, pa.the couple eliminated their debt through what they call visualization.they combined the envelope system, a method of using visualization to stow away extra cash, with the debt snowball method, where you pay more than your minimum payment on your credit cards.the couple also made moves to reduce their spending. they began eating less expensive meals, and cut back on things they didnt need, like cable. they say switching to an antenna, which provided 20 channels for free, saved them a big chunk of cash each month.how the envelope system worksfigure out the categories where you tend to spend the most. for example: mortgage, savings, car payment, bills, credit cards. designate an envelope for each category.every time you have extra cash, youll put a percentage in each envelope. how much will depend on your unique needs.for example,mortgage: 50 percentsavings: 10 percentcar payment: 10 percentbills: 10 percent;credit cards: 20 percenttammy, a missionary, says the envelope system allowed them to see what steps they needed to take to get out of debt.it just became very clear how to make the money work, she says.tammy says using an electronic version of the system allowed her to automate money from her paychecks directly into each category.you dont have to think about it, once you designate thats how you want to break it down, she says.combining the snowball methodafter sitting down with a financial coach, the grays say they were shocked to see how much money they were paying in interest on credit card debt.i remember crying, says tammy.what opened up our eyes was how much interest we paid on the credit card alone, not counting the principal, adds dennis. that really motivated us to pay it off quickly.the grays began to apply the snowball method to paying down their massive credit card debt.the method requires you to pay more than what you owe on your minimum monthly credit card payments. how much you contribute will depend on your unique needs and circumstances. the key is to continue paying it off at the same amount or more, even as the amount you owe decreases.over time, the grays credit card debt began to go down, which means they could increase the amount they contributed to paying off their debt.after five years, they made their last credit card payment in september.thats an amazing feeling, says tammy.now that their credit card debt is eliminated, the couple is focused on paying off their home loan. since they no longer have to pay off credit cards, they can afford to double the monthly payments to their their mortgage.the couple say their son and his wife, recently married, plan to use the same system to manage their own money.my heart is very emotional that they wont go through what we did, tammy says.more savings hacksthe one move you can make to improve your wealth and healthhow a do-not-buy list can save you hundreds of dollars13 easy ways to save moneyhow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

youd be hard-pressed to meet a person who has never had a complaint about their boss (current or former). in generations past, employees were taught to just suck it up and deal. you dont argue with the boss, you appease him. you dont tell her shes being unclear in an assignment, you try and clarify for yourself because you dont want her to doubt your ability to execute.its a pretty lopsided system, and one that has put the onus to change on the employee. fortunately, the tide is turning as millennials jump ship from companies (and managers) that are not treating them well.that old-school system where the boss sits in an ivory tower and passed judgment on people or treat them like commodities is gone, says phyllis horner, phd, founder, thriving work life design and author of powerful choices for mid-career women: how to create your personal pathway to meaning, prosperity and your next great job. older generations are looking to the millennial mindset and realizing that theyre right: we shouldnt have just stick it out and wait for things to get better. its not good for a person of any age.so bosses, its now on you to own up to your aggravating behaviors and make real changes in your leadership tactics if you want to succeed.linkedin finds that unclear expectations, micromanaging top the list of complaintsbosses should take heed of a new linkedin learning survey revealing employees top complaints about their bosses. according to the near 3,000 polled, these are the most frustrating behaviors of managers that may lead to one quitting a job:having expectations that arent clear or frequently changemicromanagingthey are unavailable ornot fostering professional development.if youre a boss displaying any of these behaviors, how can you change your ways? bosses and leadership experts weigh in with their best tips for improvement.encourage questions and be honest about what you dont knowwhen a good boss sets unclear expectations, its often because what has been handed down to them, as an employee too, is vague, but they are required to pass it down, so they do, says horner.bosses can be reluctant to admit their own lack of omniscience around a newly commissioned task, which can result in them expecting those under them to figure it out. instead, they should be transparent and encourage questions that they can get answered, even if it means going back to their own boss or board.say to your employees, do you have any questions that would help us be successful with this? i will then go back and find out the answers, horner says. then follow up and get back to your team. leveling it that way makes people feel empowered and enabled because youre willing to be the go-between. also, be sure to give credit by saying things like, thats a great question.this approach may be helpful even if you do have a solid idea of the task at hand.implement listening checks in meetinga practical tool to use when communicating expectations is to give listening checks, says vanessa ridley-gray, vp, product operations at zerocater.\"i have learned that bosses and employees can both listen more effectively and seek clarity to ensure they are on the same page, says ridley-gray. when i am in a meeting, i say, can i do a listening check? i then repeat what i thought i heard and ask for confirmation. i encourage my team to do the same. this ensures we are clear [and] accountable to each other.\"micromanaging? check your own stress and have an open conversation about goalsif youre hovering a little too closely over how your employees are performing, youre probably under extra pressure yourself to perform well.i teach that, even in a crisis, when the pressure is on you as the boss and its tricky to know how to respond to it because you feel out of control, how do you handle stress yourself without dropping it on employees? its usually through micromanaging, notes horner.you may not even realize youre micromanaging, but your employees will, and it will likely upset them. so, in addition to taking the time and care to ease your own stress, make an effort to show your employees that you trust them.communicate to your employees that theres a bottom line that needs to happen, and explain to your employees the challenge and how youre committed to their success as well as the companys, says horner. if theres something you have to instruct them on, like if youre bringing in a new technology, let them know youre doing so not because you dont trust their ability, but because were all learning. have an open conversation that lets everyone know, together we will make this work.be mindful that everyone is different. some people will pick up a new skill more quickly than others. this doesnt mean the one that lags is less capable, nor does it mean that you have to helicopter-manage those struggling.you have to be able to read that someone knows how to do something, then ask then, can you teach the next person this? this is how you escape the trap of micromanaging, says horner.even ultra busy introverts have no excuse for being absentyou may truly value your team, but perhaps because youre so absorbed in your own work, or an introvert, your employees are mistaking you for being aloof, which can be a deal breaker for them, horner notes. or, youre just not all that available, which is also problematic, for obvious reasons.the answer to handling these issues is simple, but not necessarily easy. you have to get out there and be real with your team in an approachable, genuine manner.ask yourself, who am i role-modeling after? its your responsibility to figure this out and right the ship, says horner. i have counseled countless people to get out of their offices and walk around [the workspace].merely the act of showing youre part of the team can be effective in revealing that you care and respect your employees and are on the same page as the are in terms of wanting success, but also being a human being. this may be uncomfortable for you if youre naturally withdrawn, but its necessary and will likely be appreciated.i cant expect anyone else to get outside their comfort zone [and innovate] if im not first willing to get outside my own, says mark arsenault, executive director at success reentry, adding that this survey was a welcomed eye-opener for him. it can be difficult to suppress ones ego for the sake of serving by example, but its extremely important to do so.your employees need to know they can grow at your company, invest in themhorner finds that many managers resist investing in developing their employees because theres a fear that theyll take the training, mentorship, education or whatever else theyre learning to grow only to move companies a year later.this may very well happen, but guess what? if you dont put those assets into growing your employees marketable potential, youve already lost them.all the best companies today invest in inclusion and employee development, says horner. those companies who dont do the investing arent [necessarily] short-sighted, theyre thinking about dollars on the table. theyre thinking that millennials wont stay and theyve just essentially given that [development] money to another company. but this is not just a financial relationship, its a human one.not investing in your workers development will only cause them to seek out better opportunities, says horner, and it could come back to hurt you later when youre looking to hire and word has spread on sites like glassdoor that you dont value your talent enough to help them grow.ideally, tackling your behavioral blind spots will help you focus more on these proactive measures, which can have a positive ripple effect throughout your team and company.my weakness in communication flexibility made me realize that i needed to enable one of my team members, who is a far better communicator than me, to be the leader in our company from a daily-direction standpoint, says josh rubin, ceo of post modern marketing. bringing her up to be a leader has already started paying off with our team, their attitude and productivity.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

for the 100th year, we get to turn our clocks back an hour, alleviating the gloom of dark mornings but robbing us of daylit evenings.according to a recently added section of the indoor generation, a survey from yougov and velux, many of us feel less productive as the clocks roll back  74 percent of americans say a lack of daylight affects their productivity, and 34 percent of americans say a lack of daylight affects their productivity significantly.kevin van den wymelenberg, ph.d., associate professor and director of the institute for health in the built environment at the university of oregon, says the human need for daylight is unconscious, but fundamental. the rhythms of light and dark are a fundamental part of the ecological system that nearly every species on earth evolved within, he says. should we really expect anything but an erosion of productivity if this natural system is severely disrupted?john sharp, m.d., psychiatrist on faculty at harvard medical school and the david geffen school of medicine at ucla, and author of \"the emotional calendar: understanding seasonal influences and milestones to become happier, more fulfilled, and in control of your life, also says less light in your day can cause things to slow down. the interesting thing is, without light, our sleep wake cycle would be much longer than it is now. but its the absence of light that sets us into our sleep-wake patterns, says sharp. when that gets shifted, it really affects us and can cause people to be irritable, sleepy, and want to quit the day earlier. its easier just to shut it all down at 5 p.m.a few countries in the european union have led a hearty discussion in hopes of abolishing daylight saving all together. some northernmost countries, where it can be either light or dark for days on end depending on the time of year, cited health issues caused by the phenomenon  such as an eight percent increase in the risk of stroke and 24 percent increased risk of heart attack the monday following spring forward. the only good news about turning the clock backward is, according to that same study, that extra hour of sleep coincides with a reduced risk of heart attack the following monday by 21 percent.so how can we better get ahead of the havoc daylight saving wreaks on our lives?ease into the sleep shiftsharp says dialing back your bedtime by 15 minute increments can help you ease the transition. think back to when you want to wake up and how much sleep you normally need, then gradually adjust your bedtime toward your sleep goal, he says.avoid alcohol and refined carbs and sugar before bedat least 20 percent of american adults rely on alcohol to help them fall asleep says dr. sanam hafeez, clinical psychologist and teaching faculty member at columbia university teachers college. yet, she says imbibing the night before the clocks roll back is much more likely to hinder your sleep than help it. alcohol disrupts circadian functioning, directly interfering with the ability of the master biological clock to synchronize itself, she explains. because circadian rhythms have such a powerful, dominating influence over the way our bodies function, the disruptive effects of alcohol can be widespread, affecting sleep and other systems, including liver function, she explains.sharp says though booze and carb-rich meals and snacks might be comforting come shorter days, theres a price to pay for overindulging  especially that night. even if it relaxes you, you wont get the quality of sleep that makes you feel better during the day if you drink. and carbs sap energy because they metabolize into sugar and screw up your baseline metabolism and glucose production in a way that effects your energy and outlook, he says. so you might be better off saving the booze and sweets for the hygge or csagach inspired hibernation spells to come.get out in the daylighthafeez says light suppresses the secretion of the sleep-inducing hormone melatonin  and dark induces it. to better adjust to daylight saving time in fall, hafeez advises exposing yourself to as much light as you can during the day. even if its chilly, a long walk outside can elevate your serotonin levels (and your mood), give you a dose of vitamin d  even boost your immune system, as weve previously reported. conversely, when night falls, hafeez recommends avoiding bright light so you can fall asleep faster. for example, if you get up at night to go to the bathroom, dont turn on the light, she explains.to help recalibrate your circadian rhythms the monday after the clocks roll back, wymelenberg recommends, if at all possible, having your first morning meeting outside as a walk-and-talk. if not, try to take your laptop to a spot in your building by a sunny window.dont sleep with your smartphonehafeez says your phone might mess with your sleep patterns more than you think  one study revealed that 68 percent of smartphone owners sleep either holding their smartphone, having it in bed with them, or on their nightstand. says hafeez: so many people use their smartphones as their alarm clocks  it makes sense to want your phones within an arms reach. but the temptation to check social media sites, work email or news headlines is often too strong to resist. as a result, you might feel energized from interacting with others, or stressed out by something that you read when you should actually be relaxing, which partly explains why people who consume electronic media in bed are at higher risk for insomnia. to quell the culprit, simply keep your phone in another room and set an old school alarm to wake up instead.all these easy little tweaks can add up to make a big difference in terms of how your body adjusts to turning the clocks back, says sharp. and if you cant make it to bed 15 minutes earlier, at least consider keeping your hands out of the cookie jar tonight.ready to get more zzzs? read these and rest bettera guide to better sleep7 ways to actually get to bed an hour earlier tonight8 sleep mistakes you can fix tonightthis is how to keep a sleep diary to actually improve your sleep16 ways to get a better nights sleep without popping a pillwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when we add a pet to the family, we dont make an in sickness and in health vow (though maybe we should!). cats and dogs depend on their human families to take care of them, but theres more to pet ownership than a daily bowl of kibble. whats more, we cant exactly take care of our animals if were sick, so we also have to make sure were keeping our homes free of any critter-born pathogens. and if we want to live happily ever after, we have to co-exist peacefully.here are six tips for keeping your entire family  creatures and all  healthy and happy. of course it starts with preventative care; dont wait till your pet is sick to see the vet. instead, stick to a regular schedule of wellness exams.if you share the bed with your pets, do thisif you share your bed with pets you might not want to let yourself get too lax on washing the sheets. while twice a month may suffice for an animal-free household, according to the cleveland clinic, pets are common harbors for fungal organisms that can come in contact with your skin, says cleveland clinic dermatologist alok vij, md. this can cause simple infections like ringworm, but can also lead to more aggressive infestations like scabies, which is caused by mites that can live on dogs and be transmitted to humans. eek! other parasites can also be transferred from pets to parents, so make sure youre washing your sheets often, he adds.dont slack on grooming (and check your pets ears)grooming is about more than looking cuter in all those insta photos. regular grooming should be performed to prevent mats from developing, american kennel club chief veterinary officer jerry klein told nbc news better. not just irritating tangles, mats can cause serious dermatitis, he explained. whether you do it yourself or take fido to a groomer, pay special attention to the inside of ears, he said, as bacterial and yeast infections can occur with exposure to moisture (after bathing and swimming). always dry your dogs ears after a bath or swimming.think flea season is over? think againonce summers over youre free from worry about fleas and ticks, right? not necessarily. while flea season peaks during warm weather months, the length of the season varies depending on where you live, according to the food and drug administration (fda). it can last four months in some places, but in other places, like florida, fleas can live all year long, says ann stohlman, v.m.d., a veterinarian in the fda center for veterinary medicine. and in a warm house? fleas can live inside year-round wherever you live. ticks, too are found in some places year-round.beyond being a nuisance (ask anyone whos dealt with fleas in the house and the word that always comes up is \"nightmare\"), fleas and ticks can transmit diseases to humans, according to the american veterinary medical association. and its a host of stuff, ranging from bartonellosis (aka cat scratch fever) to lyme disease to plague(!). theres no one-size-fits all approach to parasite protection, the avma says; factors including the age, species, breed, lifestyle and health status of your pet, as well as any medications they take all play a role in determining the best approach. this is definitely a decision to make in consultation with your vet.let sleeping dogs lie  on the couch?if you believe your furry family members belong on the furniture with the rest of the family (or even if you dont, but they disagree!) your battle with stains, tears, and stray hair likely never ends. but, before you start thinking about building a doghouse, consider changing up your furniture material. experts give the thumbs up to leather; tight-weave fabrics like canvas, denim, microfiber, or twill; and performance/outdoor acrycle material like sunbrella and perennials. meanwhile. high maintenance materials like silk, suede and velvet are best left to pet-free households.of course if youre willing to put in the work you can also train your pets to stay off the furniture. for example, for dogs, you might consider crate-training them, especially as puppies, to keep temptations at bay while youre away. and if they have plenty of (authorized) chew toys, they may be less interested in that throw pillow.protect your floorspet-proofing starts from the ground up, with the right flooring material. if you dont want to spend your life feeling like margo in national lampoons christmas vacation, you probably want to skip carpet. if you just cant go the hard surface route, carpet tiles are at least easier to deal with when pet disaster strikes. the best options for homes with pets, according to realtor.com, are concrete, tile, luxury vinyl, and laminate. and you might want to invest in a robot vacuum!good dogs have more funeverybodys happier when fido gets plenty of exercise and has good manners. remember, dogs do what works, so if youre frustrated with their behavior, first take a look at yours. training isnt limited to new pups; its never too late to teach an old dog new tricks. making sure your dog knows whats expected and feels safe and secure goes a long way toward a peaceful, happy home for everyone.more on pets &amp; healthwhat your dogs behavior says about youforget what youve heard. being a cat lady is healthy.how dogs teach us to stop worrying and just be happywhy dogs are good for our health and help us cope with lifewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

giving up the chance to make more than $250,000 a year to instead be the co-founder of a charity startup was the best decision i could have made.im far from alone. these days more and more people, particularly millennials like me, are going the way of social impact entrepreneurship. social enterprises are being called the new black, a new paradigm for business, even a possible future for global capitalism. its little surprise, given that one survey found 94 percent of millennials want to use their skills to benefit a cause.but the rosy picture this can create  getting scrappy, living a pared-down life with more meaning  leaves out some of the big pitfalls social entrepreneurs face. theres a lot that i didnt know before making the jump from investment banking to launching givz. these are lessons ive learned along the way.1. you will question your decision, oftenive often gone to bed filled with worries. and ive had nightmares  recurring dreams that everything fell apart, or a big contract fell through. of course, ive had these worries during the day, too.ive learned to counteract these fears by asking myself one question: if i still had my old job, and was offered the chance to leave it and take over givz today, would i say yes? my answer has always been yes. thats how i know im on the right path.2. you will fall into the grass is greener trapits easy to daydream about having no financial worries. im fortunate that my wife has steady work, which has allowed us to take this risk. then again, we have our first child on the way, which of course increases stress.ive taken on a new mindset about money: that its like blood. you need enough, and a little extra in case you need a transfusion. but in general, having boxes of stored blood is not necessary right now. we have enough.more importantly, because of the nature of my work, i get to see every day how incredibly fortunate we are. im constantly interacting with charities that serve people in awful conditions  people in real dire straits. when you see pure gratitude and joy on someones face because of what youve created, its the most powerful reward. always keep in mind the people youre aiming to help. it restores perspective.3. people will think its going better than you feel it isanytime youre able to announce a step forward  some funding raised, for example  youll get lots of congratulations from people you know. they wont know all the blood, sweat and tears that went into it. and they wont know about your constant anxiety and exhaustion.ive learned to play along, and tell people that things are, indeed, awesome. to share the highs, but not the lows. you want people in general to be excited about what youre doing  and for that to happen, you need to project that excitement yourself. if you talk too much about the lows, pointing out how many startups fail for example, people think that you dont fully believe in what youre doing. to grow your enterprise, highlight the highs  and save the struggles for the people closest to you.4. celebrate your successesfor all these reasons and more, its important to pause and appreciate all the achievements along the way, both big and small. the first time we sent along a check to a charity that was donated through our platform, we took a moment to enjoy it. and recently, we signed a very exciting contract that can help millions of people donate to all sorts of causes. we could have immediately started worrying about the next steps  how to maximize the opportunity and get the work done  but we took a moment to congratulate each other on the accomplishment.as a social entrepreneur, you have a different relationship to the work. no ones telling you what to do, and there may be no one to tell you when youve done something good. so you have to make sure to own each achievement, and use it to energize you to tackle the next mountain of work.to grow your enterprise, highlight the highs  and save the struggles for the people closest to you.ultimately, building a career around social impact is a win-win. our metrics for success  growing the business; helping more and more charities; facilitating more donations, bringing more attention to social causes and more  involve doing good for everyone involved. its something id never get being a cog in a wheel at a company.as my future child grows up, i want him or her to see that. that you can live by purpose. you can create something aimed at doing good in the world. it takes a leap of faith. but its worth it.more stories about taking chancesdefying gravity: a broadway stars unlikely journey from wall street to wickedflywheel ceo: how i learned to win by failingwhy you need to make failure a key part of successwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the midterm elections are turning out to be nearly as stressful as the 2016 presidential election  especially for democrats.according to a poll conducted by yougov and commissioned by the fitness site daily burn, democrats are 50 percent more likely than republicans to say theyre eating their feelings as a result of the current political climate. theyre also drinking more (a 2-to-1 ratio over their gop counterparts).the ostensibly good news is that these stressed out democrats are also working out more, by as much as 40 percent; but even exercise can be overdone.im seeing some people so stressed at the moment theyre doing two, even three soul cycle classes at day, dr. navya mysore, a primary care doctor, tells nbc news better. exercise is good for you, but too much is not. you [risk] dehydration and your body needs time to rest and rejuvenate.binging on de-stressors backfireswhat appears to be happening among many concerned voters, is that theyre resorting excessively to the habits that help us de-stress, whether thats eating, drinking or exercising.depending on how youre used to dealing with stress, people tend to gravitate toward that habit more, says dr. mysore. if you had a hard day, youll have a glass of wine, so maybe youre doing that more. same for people who are stress eaters  theyll eat more. if youre more prone to sweat it out when stressed, then youll do that more.binging almost always leaves us feeling crummy, even if what were binging on is as benign as netflix (which daily burns poll found both democrats and republicans are doing plenty of in reaction to the fraught political climate).how do we stop the stress-induced madness?we turned to health experts for practical tips on managing binge-y behavior when stressed.turn off the news if you need to  its firing up your limbic systemthe first step in managing election-related stress is to disconnect, if only periodically, from the news.on a practical level, try to limit the amount of news you consume on a daily basis, says allison abrams, a psychotherapist and licensed clinical social worker. this doesnt mean not stay informed, rather, be informed but set boundaries for yourself.boundaries with the news are necessary if we want to maintain our mental well being because the news is so often an emotionally negative experience. it can, as loretta brady, ph.d, professor of psychology at saint anselm college puts it fire up our limbic system, the emotion center of our brain.eating and drinking start out great, but thenthis activation leaves us physiologically reacting to stress even though our immediate circumstances may not be different, brady notes. we may be less aware of our response to this stress, mindlessly reaching for substances that calm the reactivity, substances like sweets and comfort food are plentiful at this time of year, between autumn chili cook-offs and halloween candy. we do get mood boosts from consuming such food, but also some consequences we may not intend.alcohol has a similarly euphoric effect  but things can quickly go downhill.if you find you unwind with wine, which is normally what happens with a certain amount of alcohol, and then on top of that you enjoy the habit, serotonin will also be released, says dr. mysore. those first sips or first bite of cake, youve filled that need and you feel better. its so worth it, is what first goes through your mind. but if you go overboard, you will lose that serotonin effect. youll start to wind down a path where youll get a serotonin dip, have sleep disruption, get a headache can add to anxiety or depression if you have a preexisting condition.you should still exercise, but space out the tough workoutsthough too much exercise can be hard on your body, working out is generally still a positive way to reduce stress.dr. mysore recommends alternating high intensity workouts by at least every other day, and doing lighter workouts on the other days (these lighter ones can still be cardio, but go easy on the weights).i suggest no matter where you are in your level or capacity that you get in at least 150 minutes of moderate cardio per week, says mysore. moderate means your heart rate is up and youre sweating. this helps prevent and reduce cardiovascular disease. i think doing this all in one day is too much. i will often tell people who want to do more to stick to no more than one workout a day. if youre doing body weight exercises, those space out every other day. do a low impact workout the next day like yoga, pilates or some light cardio. spacing it out will provide a great endorphin release but wont make your body burn out. even working out for 10 minutes can help.keep a food-mood journal to connect the dotsif youre emotionally eating, jonathan alpert, a psychotherapist, executive performance coach and author of be fearless: change your life in 28 days, recommends keeping a daily list of what youre eating along with how youre feeling.make columns with the following headers: what type of food am i reaching for?; whats my emotional state?; whats going on in my life right now thats leading to this emotion?; whats an alternative behavior to eating [this if its unhealthy]?you may still reach for those chips or ice cream after making your list, but at least you can connect the dots about why youre doing this and recognize if youre feeling more poorly than you realize. ideally though you can take this pause as an opportunity to stop in your tracks and make a better food choice or pick up a book instead of a pint.dont keep junk food or booze at homethe easier it is to access a vice, the more youre likely to access it. keep the sweets and liquor outside of the house if youre trying to ease up on indulging.if theyre not at home, then youre less likely to eat them, says alpert. instead, keep healthy alternatives nearby such as fruit slices and vegetable sticks. you might also freeze grapes to provide a frozen treat, or eat greek yogurt to simulate the texture of ice cream.if keeping this stuff out of your home isnt an option (lets say this past weekend you held a world series party), then just simply keeping them out of easy reach can be effective.make [junk] foods hard to get to, such as keeping them on the top shelf of a rarely used cabinet, suggests sari chait, ph.d, a clinical psychologist and owner of the behavioral health and wellness center in newton, massachusetts. if you have to work hard to get to the potato chips, it gives you a minute to stop and reset. that built0in pause can be enough to help you remember that you dont want to eat that food and to instead do something like a breathing exercise or go for a walk to deal with your anxiety.dont engage in negative self-talkif youre eating a tin of pringles while youre reading this, resist thinking badly about yourself.self-talk can be your worst enemy or your best friend. thinking, im such an emotional mess and pig will probably keep you stuck in unhealthy patterns, says alpert. while thoughts such as i am going to take charge of my health and manage stress better will lead to better behaviors and a healthier lifestyle.get out of your head and out in the communityemotional eating, drinking your feelings and even excess workouts arent productive ways of handling any amount of stress, and they certainly wont help shift the results of the election.rather than succumbing to this lonely feeling of powerlessness, get more involved with the political changes you want to see.find a way to get involved in the process  go out and vote, volunteer for a cause you believe in and contribute to causes that you find important, says dr. helen odessky is a licensed clinical psychologist and author of stop anxiety from stopping you: the breakthrough program for conquering panic and social anxiety.by making a difference hands-on, even in small ways, youll probably feel more inspired to get back on track to the things that help defeat stress on a daily level like gratitude, positivity and self-care.more stress-busting tipshow to tap into a zen feeling (almost) instantlya daily ritual that will help you de-stresshow to bounce back from headline stress disorderwhy the simple act of being in nature helps you de-stresswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

in october, the intergovernmental panel on climate change, a leading international body on climate change researchers, released an alarming report. the study found that countries around the world have just 12 years to reduce global warming before it reaches catastrophic levels.now that we know time may be running out, the question is: what can we do about it?understand how climate change will impact youif current global temperatures rise above 1.5 degrees celsius, as the report suggests, the warming atmosphere will create more extreme weather patterns across the u.s., according to ben strauss, chief scientist of climate central, an organization that reports on climate change. he says people across the country can expect hotter summers and milder winters, which will have a direct impact on food crops and the survival of wildlife.its getting hotter, so we can expect many more days above 90 degrees or 95 degrees, depending on where you live, says strauss.in the west, continued wildfires will have a direct impact on air quality and human health, according to strauss. in the southwest, he says droughts will lead to water scarcity, while the east and midwest will experience more torrential rainstorms. strauss says people in eastern coastal areas, especially in low-lying communities, will see more flooding due to heavier and longer-lasting hurricanes, which will have an impact on the value of their homes. in the northeast, he says, warmer weather will bring more tick and mosquito-born illnesses. the region will see fewer snowstorms, but the storms will become more intense due to increased moisture in the air.one thing will surely impact people equally across the country, according to the scientist: intensifying summer heat. many more days that are danger days in terms of human health and that are black flag days  you get to a certain combination of heat and humidity, strauss says.what can we do?focus on solutions, according to crystal chissell, a vice president for project drawdown, a coalition of researchers and scientists who are working on climate change solutions.chissell says reports of impending doom tend to cause ordinary people to feel hopeless and to shut down.we will get a lot further toward solving the problem if we focus on solutions rather than continuing to highlight the problem, chissell says.project drawdown recently put together a report highlighting 30 behavioral solutions ordinary people can take to combat climate change. the top three include wasting less food, adopting a plant-rich diet and consuming less energy and water.6 things you can do to combat climate change, according to advocacy groups1) waste less foodmethane from agricultural actives, waste management, and energy use is the second largest cause of climate change behind fossil fuels, according to the environmental protection agency.reducing food waste is the number-one thing consumers can do to significantly lessen their climate impact, according to the project drawdown report.food that is disposed of and spoiled creates methane, and thats why it has an impact on greenhouse gases, because methane is such a strong greenhouse gas, chissell says. and thats why reducing food waste has such a large impact.food waste occurs when we dont buy produce because it has blemishes or is misshapen, when we discard food because it is a day past the expiration date, or because we simply never get around to eating it, she says.2) eat less factory-farmed red meatfactory farms feed cows grains, which cause them to release methane into the air through their gases, says chissell.its not actually natural to their digestive system so it creates more methane, chissell explains.chissell says adopting a plant-rich diet, and eating more meat from organic farms where animals are fed natural diets, can help reduce methane. its not even necessary to be a vegan or a vegetarian, she says, its just reducing the amount of meat that we consume and eating plant-based [foods].3) consume less energy and waterits absolutely imperative to also reduce energy usage, says chissell. for instance, switching to led light bulbs  that has a very large impact, as does any measure that can reduce household water use.there are a number of actions you can take to reduce water consumption, according to chissell, including purchasing low-flow shower heads and sink faucets, taking shorter showers and washing full loads of laundry.4) call and meet with your representativesconstituents who do the extra legwork of calling and meeting with their representatives have a huge influence, according to flannery winchester, communications coordinator at citizens climate lobby, a non-partisan advocacy organization that focuses on national policies that address climate change.if theyre not communicating with the people who are elected to represent them, then those people are not going to be prioritizing those issues, winchester says.many people believe their elected officials wont be swayed by their concerns, says winchester. but when people actively lobby their representatives, she says, change does happen.for example, winchester says voters influenced both democrats and republicans in the u.s. house of representatives to come together to create the the climate solutions caucus, a bipartisan group focused on climate change solutions.things really are moving, says winchester, and its because people are taking the time to talk to their members of congress.5) open a dialogue and find common groundwhile there is major consensus among scientists that climate change is happening, some people may still doubt its real, or see climate change policies as job killers, according to winchester.how people talk to others about climate change is important to solving the problem, winchester says. she says its imperative to avoid arguing about climate change as if it is a partisan issue.really listen, ask open-ended questions and focus on finding common ground, winchester advises. for instance, if someone fears climate change policy will hurt coal industry jobs, re-focus the conversation on how climate change policies can create jobs, she says.focusing on the common ground is the main thing thats going to make it possible for you to introduce new information into the conversation, because they dont feel like youre fighting with them, winchester says.6) volunteera big way to be a part of the solution is to join a nonprofit organization where you live that focuses on helping the environment. many of these organizations have membership opportunities in states and congressional districts across the country.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

last week, a half a bag of grapes, a container of homemade soup and a few rogue radishes i found buried at the bottom of the produce drawer all ended up in my garbage. it pains me to see produce tied up in a garbage bag for multiple reasons: im well aware of how many people dont have easy access to all of the produce i conveniently pick up on my walk home from work; i could have used those ingredients to create healthy meals; and i also see dollar signs going right into the garbage can along with my wilting kale and mushy zucchini.im not alone: in the united states, 31 percent of the available food supply at the retail and consumer levels in 2010 went uneaten. and those of us who eat a healthy diet are some of the biggest culprits: a study published in the journal plos one found that the healthiest americans are the most wasteful, because of their high consumption of fruits and vegetables, which are frequently thrown out.while there are a confluence of factors that affect food waste, one that we have direct control over is how much we are throwing away in our own households. and i, for one, know that the organization of my fridge (or, the lack thereof) is largely to blame for my own waste. i bring home my grocery store haul and shove everything into drawers and stack them on shelves, without much rhyme or reason. and without fail on a weekly basis there is a slimy bag of greens or a half-eaten jar of tomato sauce with questionable coloring that was shoved into the back and forgotten and has to be tossed.certainly taking the time to put a better system in place could make a huge difference, but if my closets are any indication, my home organization skills are wanting. so i called in reinforcements.gilat tunit, founder of project neat, a professional home organization company, says that establishing an organization system in your refrigerator is as simple as investing in a few affordable products that will make your fridge more efficient by maximizing space.the goal is to contain items, categorize them and separate them, says tunit. its really important in a fridge to be able to access things. what happens to most when [storing food is] you have to move one thing out of the way to get to the other things. how many times do you open your fridge and have to pull out the entire fridge just to reach the dressing all the way in the back? we are all guilty of that process, but its not our fault! the options that the fridge comes with is the issue in itself. its basically open shelving and no real direction as to what should go where. but what many people dont realize is that were not stuck working with the structure our particular fridge allots us.[the fridge] is the last place one imagines a possibility for organization. we assume that our fridge will just always be messy because its used on such a consistent basis. says tunit. [people] also dont realize how inexpensive it can be to make it organized and much more functional. a lot of times the products we can use to keep a fridge organized are the same as what we would use in a different part of our home.ready to give your own fridge a makeover? tunit shares her affordable, product picks that will make every fridge more efficient  and make it easier to stock up on healthy ingredients (without any of them ending up in the trash).better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.mdesign divided lazy susan storage containerprice: $17.99 per container, amazonwhat to store: butter, sour cream, cream cheese, syrup, cottage cheesetunit calls this product a must have in every home. \"the use of products such as a lazy susan gives you the ability to actually see everything that you have, she says. i suggest this for everything and anything: whether its your fridge or your pantry or your makeup or kids crayons. in my fridge i use it for condiments. theres no rummaging, no moving things out of the way, you spin it and grab whatever you need. people think if they have a lot of stuff, they cant organize it, but thats not true. as long as you contain it and have everything categorized, you can have as much stuff as you want and it will still be organized.32-ounce ball mason jarsprice: $10.35 for set of 12 jars, targetwhat to store: fruit (strawberries, grapes, blueberries, raspberries)i love mason jars for fruit such as strawberries, blueberries and grapes,\" says tunit. \"first of all , they are tall and narrow which doesnt take shelf space. they also seal tight for lasting freshness and they are glass, which is preferable to plastic.bino organizer bin with built-in handleprice: $9.99 per bin, amazonwhat to store: produce like peppers, yellow squash, tomatoes, small cucumbersthere are a couple of things i love about these bins: theyre clear so you can see through them; theyre wide, which is great because you can fit a lot of stuff in there; and youre freeing up the [produce drawer],\" says tunit. \"they have handles so its super easy to take them in and out.\"sliding greek yogurt refrigerator organizerprice: $12.99 for a 2-pack, amazonwhat to store: greek yogurtthis is another way to take things off of your shelves,\" says tunit. \"its super easy to install  its literally just two little sticky tabs, take them off, and place it wherever you want in your fridge. then you take your greek yogurt and slide it in, and it hangs, which is genius; completely off your shelving space, which frees it up.whitmor adjustable drawer dividers$12.99 for a 2-pack, amazonwhat to store: grab-and-go snack foods like string cheese, fruit cups, pudding, apples (slice and separate into ziploc baggies)people mostly use these for dressers and random drawers in their home, but i love it for a fridge, says tunit, who recommends placing them inside your produce drawer. what youre doing is creating separation inside of an otherwise open drawer. when its open and you start throwing things in, youre going to have everything mixed together. i like when everything is separated and categorized; it makes your life much easier. she suggests using this as a snack drawer, which is especially great for those with children. when a child goes in and wants to pack up a lunch bag in the morning, this is an awesome way to do it.large pro-mart smart design refrigerator pull out binprice: $17.99 per bin, amazonwhat to store: deli meats; cheesewhat the pullout bin does is give you extra drawer space that you wouldnt otherwise have, says tunit. they are easy to clip on and off and you can get however many you think will fit. what i love about them is that they dont take up actual shelf space; they hang. so youre creating extra space without taking away any space.mdesign stackable food storage container binprice: $11.90 per bin, amazonwhat to store: to-go avocado packs, hummus, dressing packets, veggie diptunit suggests using stackable bins because theyre narrow, not bulky, which is a space saver. they also have lids, so youre able to stack them. you can go three, four, however many levels up you want to go based on the size of your fridge.\" while she loves to use them for snack-sized containers, they are also another great way to store deli meats and cheese.bonus: storage ideas using products around your housethese storage ideas dont require buying special products. instead re-purpose things you likely already have lying around your house:egg carton: this costs zero dollars, other than the eggs that come with it, says tunit. one youve eaten all your eggs, simply cut off the lid of the carton and place it in the door of your fridge. \"take condiments that are more narrow on top and flip them upside down,\" says tunit, who adds that this is also a great trick to prevent those last drops from getting stuck at the bottom of your ketchup or salad dressing bottle.ziploc baggies: \"i love using freezer bags in the actual fridge for lots of things,\" says tunit. \"for one, its the easiest thing to store marinated meats in. people often use a bowl, but thats less efficient and also forces you to use a lot more sauces. i also love transferring produce, fruits, cheeses, etc. to bags because i feel they stay fresher longer as well as keeping everything separated.\" she recommends labeling each bag to make the storage trick even more efficient.office supplies: i love using a stacked office paper holder to add levels for storage,\" says tunit. \"i think using an pen/pencil holder is also awesome for things such as string cheese, yogurt sticks, etc.more tricks and tips for a better homehow to design your kitchen for weight-loss successthe kitchen is the germiest room. heres how to deep clean everything.how often to clean (almost) every appliance in your homesmall home updates you can make right now that will boost your health and happinesshow to spruce up your home on a budgetwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

a new report from the centers for disease control and prevention found that almost half of americans tried to lose weight within the past year  up from 43 percent when people were last surveyed between 2007 and 2008. but deciding how to go about it can be confusing, especially since theres wild variation in advice from popular dietary approaches, like intermittent fasting, the ketogenic diet, or even a non-diet approach.so how do you choose the best plan of attack to finally shed the extra weight? instead of committing to just one plan, steal the best advice from all the popular diets to piece together a routine that will deliver the best results. heres some healthy eating advice you can borrow from the most popular programs.whole30takeaway: focus on whole foods.the whole30 program focuses on eating real food, which is solid advice. specifically, it calls for piling your plate with veggies, lean proteins, natural fats, some fruits and lots of herbs and spices. heres why it works: a trip down the manufacturing process makes ultra-processed foods easily digestible so your body doesnt have to work as hard to break them down and take what it needs. while some find the diet plan restrictive since it eliminates staples like legumes and whole grains, you can still apply the philosophy to your diet (and reap the benefits) without giving up these foods completely. case in point: one study illustrated this by comparing the post-meal calorie burn of two cheese sandwiches  one made with whole-grain bread and cheddar cheese; the other made with pillowy white bread and american cheese. the sandwiches were matched for calories and comparable in terms of protein, fat and carb levels. study subjects were given each version of the sandwich on different days. after eating the whole-food sandwich, participants experienced a 50 percent boost in post-meal calorie burn compared to when they ate the processed cheese sandwich. as this study (and others) demonstrate, whole grains help you burn more calories and are linked with healthier body weights. setting grains aside, multiple studies have linked heavily processed foods with being overweight and obese, so choosing more whole foods over highly processed ones is one of the best things you can do for your waistline.paleotakeaway: get your fiber from diverse sources.the paleo diet is meant to mimic the way our hunger-gatherer ancestors lived and they apparently ate loads of fiber from non-starchy veggies and lower-carb fruits. the latest survey suggests that modern americans take in just 16 grams of fiber per day  about half the recommended amounts. yet eating fiber from diverse fruit and veggie sources can lead to healthful changes in your microbiome that may promote a healthier body weight. it might be that certain bacteria strains make it easier to store fat or that some strains are more likely to promote feeling full, thereby reducing the tendency to overeat. or it may be that shifts in your microbiome impact the chronic, body-wide inflammation that can play a role in insulin resistance, which in turn, prompts more fat storage. were still learning just how this intricate species of bacteria impacts our health, but its pretty clear that more fiber is needed to promote gut wellness and diversity. aim for 25 to 38 grams per day  an amount thats much easier to achieve if youre piling fruits and veggies on your plate.ww (weight watchers)takeaway: add a mindfulness practice like meditation to your wellness routine.in case you havent heard, weight watchers has updated its name and its philosophy. ww, as its now known, has a newer focus on overall wellness and with that comes a new emphasis on mindset via a partnership with the meditation app, headspace. a meditation practice can support weight loss in a number of ways. lets start with sleep. poor sleep disrupts your hormones and can lead to increased hunger and cravings for sugary and carb-rich fare. meditation can help you fall asleep faster as well as improve sleep quality and duration, which may help you reach for healthier food when youre awake. meditation can also put you in better control of impulses, so if youre prone to making last-minute purchases at the checkout counter or unplanned snacking, it can help give you more control over your food choices. and if youre the type to turn to a bag of chips after a bad day at the office, a mindfulness practice can reduce this type of emotional eating. though you can make a big difference in your healthfulness by eating better, the impact can be amplified if you adopt other practices, such as meditation.ketogenic diettakeaway: add non-starchy veggies to every meal.sure, the keto diet is known for next-to-nothing carb levels, along with heaps of protein, but it also includes non-starchy veggies at every meal. that means you might have spinach with your eggs at breakfast, a bed of greens with tuna or salmon for lunch, and a cup of cauliflower with your steak dinner. ninety percent of americans arent meeting produce needs, so eating them throughout the day is a smart strategy and a good way to fill this gap.mediterranean diettakeaway: dont be afraid of healthy fats.one of the main pillars of the mediterranean diet is to eat more healthful fats from foods like olive oil, avocados and nuts. in case there is a shred of doubt, lets get something clear: the fat content in healthful food shouldnt be vilified  even if weight loss is the goal. some of the best evidence points to the fact that the fat-filled foods on the mediterranean menu can help. in one five-year study among more than 7,000 middle-aged adults who were instructed to include more fat from either nuts or olive oil, or to consume a low-fat diet, those who enjoyed the higher-fat fare reduced their body weight more than those eating low-fat foods. and while all the middle-aged participants gained some belly fat along the way (even though they shed pounds), those whose menus were rich in olive oil or nuts gained less in their midsections. whats interesting is that the participants werent instructed to count calories or lose weight.it might be that these healthful fats give you a metabolic edge, as one study found, or it could just be that nuts, avocados and high quality oils add flavor and interest to meals, which might limit the desire to overeat. plus, these antioxidant-rich foods may promote feelings of fullness, thereby reducing the chances youre reaching for seconds or snacking excessively. foods rich in these healthful fats also lower the inflammatory response thats thought to enlarge fat cells and raise the risk of health conditions, including type 2 diabetes, memory problems and cancer. saute veggies in extra virgin olive oil, snack on nuts or add them to stir-fries, and enjoy avocados in anything from omelets to healthier treats.intermittent fastingtakeaway: close down the kitchen after dinner.you can get many of the benefits of intermittent fasting by curtailing nighttime eating and allowing your body a 12-hour span between dinner and breakfast. putting this guardrail in place helps you avoid the mindless munching that can occur during a post-dinner netflix binge, and it allows your body sufficient time to digest before bed. in addition to ensuring youre not overeating, this 12-hour fast aligns with how your body is meant to function, so it promotes a hormone response thats linked to a healthier body weight.intuitive eating (aka the anti-diet)takeaway: ditch the restrictive diet mentality.theres a lot to be said for rejecting fad diets, overly restrictive eating, and unrealistic body types  a few key pillars of the anti-diet movement. being too restrictive and focused on a specific weight goal takes up a lot of mental energy that could be freed up for more important things  like your love life, your friends and family, and your killer career. this form of dieting can also take an emotional toll. its a good idea to move away from a restrictive diet mentality and to prize both your physical and emotional health. forget what youve heard about ideal body weights and find the place where you can live most healthfully and happily.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetask a nutritionist: should i eat the same foods every day?the best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

you work hard for your money. why waste it on needless bank fees?three of the most common ones  monthly checking account maintenance fees, overdraft charges and out-of-network atm fees  can all be avoided.you may not need to switch banks to avoid these fees, just change your behavior, said ariel oshea, investing and retirement specialist at nerdwallet, the financial advice website. you should be looking through your bank account statements to find out what youre currently paying in fees. then you can figure out how to avoid them.checking account feesfree checking was the norm 10 years ago. these days, free checking often comes with strings attached, such as direct deposit or minimum balance  but not always.according to a recent survey conducted by bankrate.com, 41 percent of non-interest checking accounts are free by default, up from 38 percent last year. another 57 percent become free with direct deposit, minimum balance (average to avoid fee is $631) or some other condition, the survey found.your goal should be to have an account thats totally free, said greg mcbride, bankrates chief financial analyst. if you dont find it at your bank, look at credit unions. we found in a separate survey that more than 80 percent of credit unions offer a free checking account with no strings attached.most interest-bearing checking accounts (74 percent) require a hefty minimum balance ($6,319 on average) or direct deposit to waive the monthly service fee.bankrate notes that interest rates on checking accounts remain negligible, with the average yield just .08 percent.tip: keep enough money in a free checking account to cover routine expenses and park your rainy-day funds in a high yield savings account. some are now paying as much as 2.25 percent apy. check bankrates best savings accounts &amp; rates and nerdwallets best checking accounts to compare financial institutions.atm feesyou need some cash and you need it right now. chances are theres an atm nearby, but is that cash machine part of your bank or credit unions network? if not, expect to pay for the convenience.atm withdrawals are a lot like health insurance, youve got to stay in network. go out of network and its going to cost you, mcbride said. youre going to typically pay both the atm owner and your own bank a fee for doing so. together those fees can easily add up to $5 dollars or more and takes a big chunk out of that $50 withdrawal you might be making.the bankrate survey found that:the average surcharge assessed by the atm owner is now $3.02. thats up 53 percent over the last decade.the average fee charged by your bank to use another institutions atm averages $1.66.these atm fees are completely avoidable. plan for where and when you make a cash withdrawal, so you can stay in-network. if youre away from home, go to your banks website and find the nearest in-network machine.tip: if youre really in a pinch for cash and theres not an in-network atm nearby, go to a store and get cash back at the point of sale when you use your debit card. thats essentially a free withdrawal.overdraft chargeswe all make mistakes and financial institutions make a lot of money when we do.according to the bankrate survey:the average overdraft fee is currently $33.23, the second highest on record.the most common overdraft fee is $35.overdraft fees vary by region. the highest average overdraft fees are in: philadelphia ($35.30), baltimore ($35.05), houston ($34.33), san diego ($34.22) and phoenix (34.15).the lowest average overdraft fees are in san francisco ($31.44), los angeles ($31.89), minneapolis ($31.95), boston ($32.05) and seattle ($32.10).avoiding an overdraft penalty fee is simple: make sure the available balance in your checking account is enough to cover that payment (by check or debit card) or atm withdrawal.many bank customers are confused by the overdraft protection offered on their debit cards. heres how it works:opt-in and agree to overdraft protection for debit card transactions: purchases will go through even when theres not enough money in your checking account to cover them and youll get hit with one or more overdraft charges.decline debit card overdraft protection: if you wont dont have enough money in your checking account to cover that transaction, the purchase will be declined at the point-of-sale. yes, its a little embarrassing, but theres no overdraft charge.tip: link your checking account and your savings account. that way, if you do slip up, the transactions will be covered. fees applied to such transfers are typically $10 or less. that sure beats paying $35 for an overdraft.spot something unexpected? speak upunexpected fees are common. almost half the adults (48 percent) in a recent nerdwallet survey said they have incurred an unexpected fee on their bank accounts (40 percent) or investment accounts (19 percent).if you find a service charge or fee on your monthly statement that doesnt make sense  ask about it. it could be a mistake. you might even be able to get the fee waived, if it was a one-time slip-up.i think it is always worth calling the financial institution to see if theyll cut you some slack, nerdwallets oshea told nbc news better. it doesnt mean that youll always get the charge removed, but if you do, it will definitely be worth the time.more from betterhow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to negotiate anything, according to neurosciencesmart money moves to make now to improve your finances in 2019want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

kermit the frog had it wrong  at least where actress and singer jessica vosk is concerned. the wall streeter-turned-broadway star finds it very easy (and comfortable) to be green in broadways hit musical \"wicked.\"since its opening on broadway in 2003, \"wicked\" has been performed in over 100 cities around the world and is the sixth longest-running musical of all time  and 35-year-old vosk has seen quite of a few of those cities and stages. after a year playing elphaba, aka the wicked witch of the west, on the national tour, she made her broadway debut in the iconic role in july of this year. to celebrate the hit musicals 15th anniversary, vosk sat down with lester holt to reflect on her personal yellow brick road and a career in musical theater that almost didnt happen.a musical beginningvosk grew up singing in a musical family  with the dream of a career in the arts in the back of her head. during her childhood, she performed constantly  landing roles in local productions of \"west side story\" and \"guys and dolls\" in new jersey where she grew up. but after a semester studying musical theater at the hartt school at the university of hartford, she felt restless and transferred to montclair state university, declaring an entirely different major: communications and investor relations. from there things started happening fast.next step: wall streetas she approached graduation, vosk says she remembers \"my parents saying, you know, tick tock, youre about to graduate so get a job.\" after applying for many \"big girl jobs\" she landed an entry level position at an investor relations firm before she even graduated from college. the actor told holt that the job paid well  including bonuses  and that within three years she had been promoted twice. \"i could have made it a very, very large career if i wanted to,\" said vosk.but as the would-be broadway star tallied up the pros of the job  she was good at what she did and was paid well for it  there was a big con: anxiety. \"i developed such an anxiety that i used to get panic attacks ... and it usually happened at work.\"her job involved working with clients all over the world. she says her body clock was off from being up talking to people in portugal and california all in the same day. she confessed to holt that it was \"grueling and exhausting.\"a realization and sign from aboveonce vosk sat down and tried to pinpoint where the anxiety was coming from, she zeroed in on one thing: art. it was missing from her life. she hadnt \"seen art  been singing, acting or even going to films, ballets or operas\" in those three years at the firm. \"because i think that i subconsciously wanted to do that as my passion,\" vosk explained.but then came a moment of clarity. \"i was in my office one day  i had shut the door and a piece of paper fell off my desk  from my grandmother who had passed ... it said, i wish you a lot of luck, grandma.\" that was the moment vosk said \"i cant do this.\" the actress told holt she saw it as the universe telling her she had to make a change. it was then that she decided to quit her job and focus on musical theater full-time.a not-so-overnight sensationvosk told holt that what seemed like an overnight success to some was actually a couple of years of \"going to open calls and auditions and waking up at 6:00 am.\" she said she did what it took to put food on the table  doing odd babysitting jobs, going to open mic nights and doing work for her old bosses on wall street.vosk says those lean years often caused to her question her career change, but when she looks back \"i remind myself how strong i was at that time and how much i persevered to get where i am right now.\"when holt reminded her that shes now on the stage of one of the most successful broadway shows of all time, the actress said \"its a dream that if you told me it was going to happen five or six years ago, i would have laughed.\"after a string of successes, including roles in \"bridges of madison county\" and \"fiddler on the roof\" on broadway   and nine years after leaving the security of her lucrative job in finance  the role of a lifetime came calling.a risk worth takingdespite her success, her wall street days arent too far behind her. vosk told holt that her former role taught her valuable lessons. she says she often tells classes she teaches to remember that \"youre the ceo of your own life.\" \"you know, as jessica the actor, i have to be in control of my life, and every facet of it. which means i run a business for myself,\" the actress explained.when holt asks her what makes being on stage worth all the risk, vosk said this: \"in two and a half hours  two hours and 45 minutes  you can make somebodys life completely change in an instant with the words that you say or a song that you sing.\" she said its the kind of work that can change peoples lives.more life lessons from broadwaythe strange morning routine that helps this broadway star face her fearsinside the dressing room (and mind) of hamiltons james monroe iglehartjohn legend reaches back to childhood to prepare for jesus christ superstar livewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

when i was diagnosed with major depression at 22, i was too deep within the fog of the illness to much care that finally, after years of struggling, i had an answer as to why i felt so impenetrably bad, and that with treatment, i could improve.later, once i began therapy and started taking antidepressants, i began to feel better, which resulted both in relief and a strange sort of guilt. i was grateful to be improving, surely, but remorseful that for years i didnt seek medical help and that i had discounted even severe symptoms as the natural effects of just being in a rut, or of being stressed out.that i waited so long to take action is not unusual, and my delay was likely a result of both misinformation and lack of information altogether.according to recent studies, about 1 in 5 americans meet criteria for a diagnosis of major depressive disorder, says erlanger a. turner, ph.d., clinical psychologist and assistant professor of psychology at the university of houston-downtown. however, many people dont seek help either due to stigma or lack of information about treatment.heres a description of symptoms as relayed by mental health experts to help you determine if you or a loved one may need to be assessed for a depressive disorder.a sadness that doesnt have a specific cause and hinders functioneveryone has sad moods, and most of us know what we do when those moods hit: call a friend, watch a sad movie and cry, eat some comfort food. however, what many people do not know is how to tell if you are moving from being sad to being in a clinical depression, says dr. dara gasior, psyd , director of assessment and training at high focus centers, an outpatient addiction rehab and mental health services provider.the biggest sign that i look for is how much your mood is impacting on your level of functioning, gasior adds. when you are feeling sad, you usually are able to complete the daily tasks of your life, you just feel badly while doing so. when you enter into a state of depression, the sadness starts to interfere with your level of functioning.it lasts longer than two weeksdr. david hu, a psychiatrist and the medical director at behavioral health of the palm beaches, notes that not only does depression differ from sadness in terms of severity, it also differs in duration.people who suffer from depression typically have a low mood that lasts most of the day on most days, for more than a couple weeks, hu notes.your thoughts are black-and-white and pervasiveduring these weeks your mind is likely occupied by what kita s. curry, ph.d, ceo of didi hirsch mental health services (and someone who suffers from depression) describes as persistent thoughts of failure, hopelessness or shame, and [youre] thinking in black-and-white.types of thoughts you may experience, according to curry: no one has ever loved me; its always been this way; it will never get better! thats when you know youre probably depressed.this sense of hopelessness can be so pervasive you may find yourself unable to feel joy, even when great things happen.at one point, i knew i was feeling blue, but when i wasnt excited that i was a finalist in a book contest, i realized i was depressed, says curry.improving your perspective feels impossibledepression does not allow for conversation around change, says laura federico, a licensed[ns5] clinical psychologist. it can feel nearly impossible to shift thought patterns, improve motivation, or create a new perspective when coping with depression.federico adds that these feelings are unlike sadness, which though painful, disruptive, and difficult, [are] ultimately consistent with our sense of self, and manageable.disturbances in sleep (pro tip: you can track these)sleep disturbances are a near guarantee with depression  and they can run the gamut from sleeping too much, too little or in unusual patterns.many clients i see struggle with insomnia. either they cant fall asleep at night or have trouble staying asleep. we know that many people with depression also struggle with anxiety, which impacts quality of sleep as well, and the symptom of insomnia crosses over between the two, says rachel dubrow, a therapist who specializes in treating anxiety and depression.one of the best ways to do this is through a sleep journal or using a smart device, such as a tracker, phone, or watch, where it either automatically records the quality of your sleep and how many times you wake up, says dubrow. to do this with a journal, write the date, rate the quality of sleep from 0 (didnt sleep) to 10 (slept through the night restfully) and then write out when you woke up and when you fell back asleep.changes in appetite and/or weightanother symptom of depression is gaining or losing weight with or without a known reason, says dubrow. some clients i see gain weight because they are emotional eaters, and others dont seem to have an appetite at all and end up losing weight. this is very different from intentionally restricting or overeating.i recommend a medical workup first to rule out any other reasons for these symptoms, dubrow says, adding that you should also keep a food diary or food log to track appetite.one way is to use a food tracking app where you can scan or type in the names of the foods or input a recipe to track overall calorie count, she says. another way is to keep a journal on paper or on a phone/tablet where you list the date, rate your appetite before eating, and then list out the food and drink consumed.depression runs on a spectrum and you may be able to seem normaldepression runs on a spectrum, meaning you may experience all of these symptoms, or only some of them, with varying severity.it can be hard to identify consistent symptoms of depression because each person is different and the criteria for diagnosis is so broad, says turner.you may actually be able to still function despite having depression  but youll likely feel that youre putting in extra effort just to pass as okay.sometimes, when it comes to the more high-functioning amongst us, we seem to be able to pull it together and life looks okay on the outside, says dr. perpetua neo, a clinical psychologist[ns7] . for [others] you cant work, socialize or fulfill your personal/relational obligations. even say, opening the curtains to let in light is an effort.what if youre grieving?disruptive sadness is normal after a significant loss such as the death of a loved one  but even this important human experience can morph into something more serious.grieving is a non-linear path, and both individual and cultural factors need to be assessed carefully when differentiating grief from depression, says mark dagostino, md, assistant medical director at silver hill hospital, a non-profit psychiatric hospital. when feelings of grief become more pervasive and complex, resulting in isolation, appetite and weight changes, an inability to perform daily functions and thoughts of suicide, it is important to seek a professional evaluation.samuel ball, ph.d., director of psychology &amp; executive programs at silver hill hospital adds that when deep grief extends well beyond two months, and is accompanied by any other symptoms, you should consider evaluation for clinical (major) depression.check off any of these? heres how to find care and what to expect.if you or a loved one is exhibiting any of these symptoms, talking with a mental health expert the next (and most crucial) step.one of the quickest ways to find a mental health provider is by visiting the state psychological associations website, says turner. most psychological associations offer a directory to look for services. if youre in a crisis, you can always visit the emergency room and they will provide immediate care and possible referral sources. if you have time to do extensive research, searching the internet for reputable providers is helpful. the american psychological association and samhsa offer treatment locators. once you are able to seek out services, they can evaluate you for the appropriate diagnosis.a total round-up of symptomsthe symptoms explored here just some of the core attributes of depression. the experts consulted here also highlight other effects including loss of interest, trouble concentrating/making decisions, unexplained aches and pains and social isolation.depressionhurts has a great checklist of all the symptoms you may experience when depressed and offer a way to gauge intensity.but really, if you have any reason to believe you may be depressed, please dont put off getting help like i did  my delay didnt change my diagnosis, it only extended the suffering.if money is a concern, or if you dont have healthcare, check out our guide on how to find care on a budget. and remember, depression is, as dubrow notes very treatable. a diagnosis isnt the end of the road; its the beginning of getting back on track.more mental health helphow to get mental health services if you cant afford itstruggling to cope? an online mental health peer can lend supportwhat mental health experts say to their kids about school shootingshow to find the right therapistwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

hopeless procrastinators rejoice: there is a way to use procrastination to your advantage.are you avoiding doing something really important right now by reading this article? then youre already on the right path.most procrastinators make the mistake of doing nothing at all  wasting countless hours in front of the tv or looking at their social media. but when you use procrastination as motivation to get things done  that is, so you can avoid doing that one thing you really would rather not do  you can be quite productive. its what essayist john perry calls structured procrastination.how structured procrastination workscollege senior jordan gonen, 21, is what you might call a structured procrastinator. he uses his dread of homework as motivation to tackle other important tasks, like writing articles for his blog, sending emails, exercising or making pre-made meals for the week.structured procrastination is the idea that you can do a lot of these small tasks in place of the large tasks that you are procrastinating, because your mind doesnt want to have to think about that larger one, gonen tells nbc news better.lets say, for example, you have a number of tasks you are avoiding, in order of urgency 1) finishing an essay 2) responding to emails 3) cleaning and doing laundry 4) going to the gym.a non-procrastinator would accomplish these tasks in order or urgency. a procrastinator would avoid doing them altogether. but a structured procrastinator would do them in reverse  using his desire to avoid writing the essay as motivation to go to the gym, clean and respond to emails.when youre procrastinating in your mind youre kind of blocking out that one thing you dont want to have to worry about, says gonen. in the meantime, some people can distract their mind by watching netflix or a variety of ways, but if you can reprogram that so youre actually distracting your mind by working on other things that are still valuable, then you can get a lot done really quickly.focus on quick winsfor example, if gonen is overcome with dread at the idea of homework, hell preoccupy himself with what he calls quick wins  sending emails and writing articles for his blog.its still procrastinating my homework, but instead of doing nothing in the meantime, im still getting a lot done, he says.gonen, who attends washington university in st. louis, missouri, refers to to this procrastination time as power hours.once he gets through these smaller to-dos, gonen can more easily get into the mindset of tackling his homework.a lot of these tasks that arent particularly fun or arent particularly productive, if you can really knock them out really quickly over a certain period of time, then you can get a lot more done and it doesnt feel necessarily worse  youre just working 100 percent on whatever youre working on, gonen says.more productivity hackshow to stop over-preparing and get more donetry a zero-based calendar to boost your productivity and protect your personal timeusing compartmentalization to focus and reduce stressuse micro habits to tackle big health and productivity goalswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

did you experience worry during a lot of the day yesterday? did you experience anger? did you experience physical pain?these are some of the questions gallup asked 154,166 individuals from 140 countries and areas across the globe for its recent 2018 global emotions report, which are intended to gauge the global prevalence of negative emotions. (the questions are part of gallups world poll surveys, which cover other topics, too, detailed in other reports.)spoiler alert: negative emotions reached a new high.the negative emotions scores collected during 2017 (published in the new 2018 report) were the highest ones reported since gallup began asking these questions in 2005. the survey asked questions about positive experiences, too. those scores dipped slightly this year compared to the data reported last year.collectively, the world is more stressed, worried, sad and in pain today than weve ever seen it, gallups managing editor, mohamed s. younis, said in a letter in the report.the surveys respondents represent more than 99 percent of the worlds human population age 15 or older, which means the factors potentially driving these negative emotions are diverse. (gallup published more details about the survey respondents on its website.) psychologists say there are some important lessons though for anyone looking at the numbers from world leaders to individuals who identify with the increased negativity reported in this years numbers.globally theres a lot of upheaval and uncertaintynancy molitor, phd, clinical assistant professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at northwestern universitys feinberg school of medicine (who also practices as a clinical psychologist in chicago), tells nbc news better that how far the data can be used by world leaders to design specific interventions to bring about change is probably limited. youd need to take a deeper dive into specific regions and populations to look at whats underlying the emotions, she says.but the survey yields some interesting data on peoples feelings worldwide and arent that surprising given whats been on globally the past few years, molitor adds.globally theres upheaval, molitor says. theres migration crises (and a lot of suffering involved in that, she says), instability in government (with brexit happening in europe, infighting in the u.s., unrest in turkey, crises in yemen, and many other places), and dire climate warnings.theres a lot of uncertainty, which drives stress, worry, and all of the emotions that go along with that, she says. and whether youre politically aware of it or not, its kind of in the zeitgeist.molitor says her patients (who are notably in most part middle and upper middle class individuals) are feeling very anxious, overwhelmed and helpless. they are feeling under siege, she says.molitor was also practicing in the early 2000s, including leading up to and during the recession in 2008. people were stressed then, but it was nothing like were seeing now, she says. they dont see it getting better. theres a loss of hope.the 50,000-foot view shows that people everywhere struggle with emotional health  and people everywhere need mental health servicesits really important to look at peoples emotional health on this global scale, outside of psychology research, says jeffrey borenstein, md, president and ceo of the brain and behavior research foundation (a private funder of mental health research) and associate clinical professor of psychiatry at columbia university college of physicians and surgeons. i think for many years its been neglected, other than by mental health professionals.the results demonstrate that mental health issues cross all borders, religions, ethnic groups, and more, he says. its part of the human condition.accordingly, these results mean that people everywhere need access to mental health services, just like they need access to medical health care services for physical ailments, borenstein says. no one need suffer unnecessarily, he says. with treatment people do get better.can we actually make the world a better place?if you, your food supply or your shelter is being threatened, those are clearly sources that contribute to stress and negative experiences  and typically require broader stroke solutions than any one individual could carry out alone, molitor says. you can have the best therapists in the world, but if their environment is being ravished and traumatized, of course people are going to be depressed, sad, stressed and angry.but if factors besides those immediate physical dangers are the cause of negative emotions, there are steps individuals can take to improve their outlook in these trying global times, robin stern, phd, associate director of partnerships for the yale center for emotional intelligence, tells nbc news better.here are a few suggestions:1. get involvedhelp others. find a cause related to whats driving your stress and unease and give back, stern says. it will help you in your well being as well as help others. (research shows this is true for both physical and mental health.)2. get educatedparticularly when it comes to the divisiveness thats becoming synonymous with politics in the u.s. and elsewhere, be curious about others opinions rather than judging them immediately. be an emotion scientist, stern says. try to understand and listen.3. be gratefulhave gratitude for what you do have in your life and the things that you can count on  like the people you love and those who love you, stern says. (theres a growing body of evidence behind the stress-busting benefits of doing so.)4. focus on what you can doyoure certainly not going to be able to change everything that bothers you, but you likely can change some of it. stern says to ask yourself what can you do to feel more hopeful every day and do them. (that doesnt mean you get to completely ignore the negative things that happen in life, but you dont need to dwell on them all the time.)molitor suggests writing down all the things that are upsetting you, cross out the things that you cant do much about and figure out, what can you change? she says.5. take care of youdoing things like sleeping well, eating well, moving (it doesnt have to be going to the gym), laughing and doing your laundry  taking care of your basic needs  go a long way in helping you feel more in control and better able to deal with whatever challenges land on your plate, molitor says.6. make time for the people you care aboutsocial support is one of the number one ways to boost resiliency (i.e. coping!), stern says. scores of research shows being lonely worsens stress and worsens health outcomes, while being with and relating to others boosts positive emotions.7. pay attention to whats pushing your buttonsa big part of not letting those negative emotions getting the best of us is knowing whats causing those negative feelings to begin with, molitor explains. if twitter wars put you on edge, limit how much of that you take in, when you read it or whose rants you read, she says. or consider taking a break from it.more stress-busting tipsa daily ritual that will help you de-stresshow to relax and tap into a zen feeling almost immediatelyhow to bounce back from headline stress disorderwhy the simple act of being in nature helps you de-stresswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

halloween is my favorite holiday, and every year i decide that i will finally learn how to use the sewing machine that has been collecting dust in my closet. i feel compelled to follow in the footsteps of my mother, who made me costumes from scratch every halloween until i was in middle school.but i just dont have the patience or the time to spend hours making an outfit that i will only wear once in my life (and likely get stained by fake blood and makeup). i know i could just go online or to a party store and buy something ready-made, but that can be expensive and, for a halloween enthusiast like me, unfulfilling. i like a costume that i know is mine and no one elses  even when im going as something as generic as a cat or a zombie.fortunately those of us who are scarce on time, money and tailoring skills have plenty of tricks we can use to make our very halloween costume.using pinterest for inspiration, not intimidationpinterest is famous for setting the diy bar pretty high. masters of crafts take to the platform to showcase their stunning work, some of which looks like it could be in a museum (consider this light-up fairy gown), but these marvelous creations may best not be interpreted as an end goal, but instead as an inspiration for a costume.part of what makes pinterest fun to browse is that so many of the ideas are thorough and have a professional feeling to them, but the magic is when you take those ideas and put your own spin on them, says larkin brown, user researcher and in-house stylist at pinterest. that is so much of what we see people using pinterest for: finding the idea that works for them and then adding their own twist.make-up and body paint are on trend  and there are loads of tutorials on how to usethese individual twists and spins dont require a sewing machine or even much fuss with fabric, necessarily. brown has noted a spike in costumes on pinterest that highlight the creative usage of makeup over clothing.two of pinterests 2018 pinfrights reports most popular costumes flamingo and cow  are costumes you can create solely with make-up and body paint.more people are using makeup as a key part  sometimes the only part  of their costume, says brown. animal print is seeing a huge wave in popularity right now. people are using makeup or body paint on their face, or arms and legs.its perhaps no surprise then that among the top ten trending costumes discovered in pinterests 2018 pinfrights report are flamingo and cow  costumes that you could sew your way around, but could also create solely with make-up and body paint. and there is an endless trove of make-up video tutorials, which brown notes are helping to fuel this diy trend.repurposing athleisure-wear: leggings will take you faranother integral aspect to so many diy costumes that pinterest is eyeing (and requires no effort to incorporate) are: leggings. almost every costume idea on the pinfrights report can be facilitated by donning a pair.all these costumes are basically leggings, brown notes with a laugh as we go through the top 10 solo costumes. tonya harding is the #1 solo guise this year. you could wear tights for accuracy, but halloween is a chilly occasion in most parts, with parades taking place outside in the evening. leggings will keep you warmer and give the same effect. same goes for black panther and edna mode, character costumes that also grace the trendiest list, along with those flamingo and cow get-ups.athleisure in general ties in well this year, says brown, noting that this falls in line with a greater trend of repurposing old or seldom used clothes. we tend to think of diy as meaning something from scratch, but it can also be about repurposing other pieces.make goodwill your good friendbrown admits that she is not one for sewing and doesnt perceive herself as particularly skilled in the crafts area. but she and her team at pinterest take halloween very seriously.she hits up thrift stores to put together her costumes.i rely on the goodwill a lot, she says. if i want to be a cat i can find inexpensive pieces with cat print and then all i have to do is make or buy cat ears and be done. last year my team at pinterest last year had an under the sea theme. i was a fisherman. i had rain boots, yellow overalls and i repurposed a striped shirt belonging to my husband and wore his beanie. it was nothing heavy duty diy, but it did feel homemade and i was able to hone elements to create something i liked.krista marie ivan, costume manager at scarehouse, a haunted house attraction in pittsburgh, also relies on secondhand stores for halloween costumes, of which she needs an abundance to bring scarehouse to life.from zombie to flapper, old clothing is your best (and easiest) betthrift stores always have finds that you can easily turn into something great, ivan says. if youre looking for a historical theme costume, it is important to know the shape of the garment you are looking for. wide coat lapels for the 30s gentleman, drop-waist or jumper dress for a 60s lady, a drop-waist or a shift dress for a flapper simply add a boa and some long necklaces as accessories.if youre going as a zombie, your costume is less about creating and more about destroying.all you need is to distress any kind of clothing, says ivan. tear them up with scissors, knives and rub them on pavement. add some makeup from a simple kit.plastic tablecloths, hangers and bubble wrap: all potential materialone wonderful thing about halloween is that unlike with wedding or baby shower planning (other popular pinterest subjects), is that you dont have to take this stuff seriously. you can get silly and weird and your costume will be all the better for it.one year i dressed up as ok cupid (i would meet my husband on that site but nine months later!). i wore a short red slip dress with 99 cent store angel wings and using construction paper, wrote out phrases in sharpie that were familiar on the site like looking for a partner in crime and best feature: my eyes. i cut these out in bubble comment shapes, safety-pinned them all over my dress with the letters ok extra big in a heart shape on the bodice.this makeshift costume took me all of 30 minutes to make and wound up winning me second prize in a contest.other halloween celebrants have had similar success with just using whats lying around their home.i have done some wacky stuff without ever sewing anything, says jeanine murch, a brooklyn-based artist. a mermaid tail out of duct tape, light-up fairy wings from hangers, pantyhose and led lights; octopus tentacles from hangers and bubble wrap; a patchwork dress out of felt, and a wig out of yarn as a few examples.even those who know how to sew will forego the time-consuming process for a hot glue gun and some felt  items that lauren reid, a digital producer in brooklyn dubs your best friends come halloween.our group friend costume this year is batman. im robin, and plan on using a yellow trashbag, poncho and plastic tablecloth cut up into a cape, reid says. ill get a basic red tee from my closet or a thrift store and will make the details to add to it out of felt. then i just need a black belt and some green exercise shorts and tights (again, already in my closet), a basic eye mask cut out of felt or makeup. if im feeling fancy ill grab a pair of green rubber dishwashing gloves for a couple bucks to complete the costume.these quick hacks work for kids costumes, toothough those memories of my mother spending hours sewing the perfect costumes for me lingers warmly in my mind, her method isnt necessarily the best way to make your kid a costume (no offense, mom, your work was genius). it can actually be more fun for you and your child to do something collaborative.halloween costumes have become more of a shared activity to do with your kids, notes brown. its not parents toiling late into the evening so much as making this a shared and connected experience. this can also be more cost-effective. with diy, theres a lot of practicality to stick to a family budget.daisy luther, a blogger in virginia, says she cant sew to save her life but has made some admirable costumes for her two girls.you can make a cute kids ballerina costume with about six yards of their favorite color tulle, little safety pins and ribbon for the waist, she says. fold over the tulle and safety pin it to make a waistband. then thread the ribbon through, gathering the tulle to make it poofy. dress them in leggings and a plain long sleeved shirt. wrap the skirt around their waist and tie the ribbon into a big bow. we also pinned on silk flowers from the dollar store all over the skirt and added a matching flower crown with long ribbons trailing off it. if you add dollar store wings, the child becomes a fairy.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

whether you have dry skin year-round or its something you only experience in winter, it can be a challenge to find skin care products that actually keep dryness at bay. if you do happen to stumble upon a moisturizer that works, you know that it has the power to transform dry skin into dewy, glowy skin that somehow just looks healthier and younger.dry skin is caused by an impaired skin barrier and dysfunction or deficiency in the necessary healthy fats in the top layer of the skin  cholesterol, fatty acids and ceramides  which are essential to normal skin function, explains shari marchbein, md, clinical assistant professor of dermatology at nyu school of medicine. when your skin barrier is compromised, bacteria and irritants can work their way in, leaving you with redness, flakiness and itchiness, says marchbein.if you are very dry, you will do best with a richer cream rather than a lotion.the best moisturizers  for dry skin are ones that have a combination of humectant and occlusive ingredients, says heidi waldorf, md, of waldorf dermatology aesthetics. humectants, like hyaluronic acid and glycerin, are ingredients that act like sponges to pull water into your stratum corneum (the outermost layer of your skin) from both the environment and the deeper skin below, says waldorf. occlusives seal it in and include petrolatum, oils and silicones, adds waldorf. for a moisturizer with a silkier feel, look for emollients like dimethicone and cyclomethicone (both are silicones), suggests waldorf.also pay attention to the base of the product. if you are very dry, you will do best with a richer cream rather than a lotion, says waldorf. and dont think you can get away with just applying serum if you have dry skin. a serum may feel moisturizing, but even if it has potent humectants, without occlusive ingredients the results wont be long-lasting, says waldorf. so always apply a moisturizing cream or lotion over any serum.below, top dermatologists share their favorite moisturizers for dry skin.better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.the best moisturizer for daytimecerave moisturizing cream, $12.68, amazona good daytime moisturizer for dry skin can be found right at the drugstore. ross s. levy, md, dermatologist at caremount medical in mount kisco, new york, points to this moisturizer as offering good quality at a good price point. formulated with ceramides (fats that are naturally found in the skin) and hyaluronic acid, it helps restore your skins barrier to keep irritants out. plus its fragrance-free meaning it wont irritate sensitive skin.the best moisturizer for multitaskingtizo am replenish photoceutical, $45.95, walmart regardless of your skin type, its important to use sun protection in the daytime, and yes, that rule holds true even when its not summer. (the suns rays can be just as damaging when its snowing out.) instead of applying two separate products, a moisturizer and a sunscreen, reach for a product that pulls double-duty. this one is a favorite of vivian bucay, md, of the bucay center for dermatology and aesthetics. in addition to ceramides, this moisturizer also contains vitamins c and e, which bucay notes are proven antioxidants that fight skin-damaging free radicals, and zinc oxide, a mineral sunscreen.the best moisturizer for travelcaudalie premier cru creme rich, $140, sephora or $96, amazonthis splurge-worthy moisturizer address dry skin and aging with its potent combo of plant waxes (jojoba, mimosa and sunflower), resveratrol and grape seed polyphenols. it contains anti-aging and anti-inflammatory ingredients, but i love it for its elegant non-greasy yet deeply moisturizing feel, says waldorf. i carry a small travel jar with some on airplanes for extra moisture.the best moisturizer for nighttimesimple skincare water boost sleeping cream, $5.09, amazonpump up the hydration overnight with this oil-free moisturizer, one of marchbeins go-tos, that contains a variety of humectants and emollients. one of the star ingredients is pentavitin, a plant extract that binds to your skin to keep moisture in and boost hydration. the gel formula was made specifically to be used while you snooze so that you wake up with softer skin.the best moisturizer for bodyvasoline intensive care cocoa radiant body butter, $5.89, targetdont forget the skin below your chin. dryness can happen anywhere. for your body, marchbein suggests looking for creams that come in a jar as theyll be richer than moisturizers that come in a bottle with a pump. she likes this one, which is jam-packed with humectants, vaseline jelly, and cocoa and shea butter to provide long-lasting moisture. apply a thick layer within 60 seconds of leaving the shower, recommends marchbein, and limit your showers to five minutes top (avoiding super-hot water) to prevent excess dryness.more pro shopping tipsthe best workout shoes for women, according to fitness expertsgear and gadgets that will take your workout to the next levelthe best cleaning products, according to the prosback-to-school lunch gear that makes healthy eating easierwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

have you ever felt a static-like or tingling sensation on the top of your head when someone brushes your hair or whispers to you? the feeling may travel down your arms and your spine, and it likely makes you feel very relaxed. some call it a sparkly feeling, and it might happen when you hear someone crinkle a piece of paper or when someone traces a word on your back.the phenomenon is one that has captured the attention of psychologists and other researchers over the past decade or so. theyve termed it autonomous sensory meridian response (or asmr), though some also refer to it as a brain orgasm.for me, my brain goes delightfully fuzzy. im so relaxed that i want to put my head down wherever im at, says craig richard, phd, professor of biopharmaceutical sciences at shenandoah university in winchester, virginia, and author of a new book about asmr, \"brain tingles.\"researchers started paying attention to asmr, richard explains, in large part because of the boom of online videos of asmr triggers  and the claims of those who watched them.many of the videos show someone whispering, lightly tapping on the camera or a microphone, stroking their hair, folding napkins or showing you a thimble collection. (to those whove never seen or heard about asmr, they will likely seem odd.)it wasnt just that asmr videos were popular, richard says. cat videos have always been popular too. but people kept posting comments online about how asmr videos helped them to relax, de-stress, [and] fall asleep.and that included people who said they had been diagnosed with an anxiety disorder or insomnia, he says. richard is also founder of asmr university, an online resource to teach people about what asmr is and the evidence behind it.but there were obvious research questions here, richard says. is there something physiologically going on? what is happening? and is there a potential clinical use for it to help people with problems like insomnia, anxiety, depression, and chronic pain, as people anecdotally have reported it does?were trying to explain the basics of this, he says  and then how can this be applied as, perhaps, part of clinical treatments.the science suggests a brain tingle is a physiological responseunfortunately given how recently scientists started paying attention to asmr, theres still very little data published on it. but the findings so far suggest something is going on to trigger the response.for one study, researchers used fmri scanning to compare brain activity in people who report experiencing asmr with people who dont experience it. the work compared which brain cell networks were active in both the asmr-experiencing group and the non-asmr-experiencing group.everyones brains were in a resting state (as they were all lying still in the scanning machine when the imaging was done). and during rest, there tended to be weaker activity in whats known as the default mode network (which is the one that becomes active when were daydreaming or disengaged from whats happening around us) in the asmr group.we dont know exactly whats going on while someone is experiencing asmr tingles, study co-author stephen smith, phd, associate professor of psychology at the university of winnipeg in canada, tells nbc news better.but the takeaway from these is that the brains of people who are able to experience asmr may be wired slightly differently than those who dont experience it, he says.another study from smiths group suggests that it may even be that people who experience asmr are more likely to have certain personality traits (like being open to new experiences and neuroticism) than those who cant.some people appear to have brains that are organized in a way that makes them receptive to asmr tingles and other people do not, smith says about the work hes done on the topic (noting though that the evidence is all still preliminary because of the lack of additional trials).other research has identified physiological changes associated with asmr that back up the claim it really does relax people.a group of psychologists at the university of sheffield published a paper earlier this year in the journal plos one that reported for the first time that people who report experiencing the sensation actually do appear to have a physiological response: their heart rates tend to slow down. the researchers recruited 112 individuals, half of who reported experiencing asmr and the rest of whom reported not experiencing the sensation and monitored everyones heart rate while watching an asmr video.its not just people telling us that asmr makes them feel relaxed  their physiology is telling us the same thing, too, says study co-author, guilia poerio, phd, a psychologist who researches asmr (along with sleep, mind-wandering, and imagination and well-being) at the university of sheffield in the u.k.a noteworthy point about the results of the experiment is that the observed reductions in heart rate were comparable to other tried-and-true stress relief methods, like music and mindfulness, poerio says.and just last month, richard and colleagues published data that shows results of fmri brain imaging scans for 10 individuals (who all previously reported experiencing asmr) as they watched an asmr video and reported feeling the sensation. the parts of the brain active when were socially engaged with others, when we feel empathy, and when our brains reward centers are on, appeared to be active when people said they experienced asmr.probably not everyone can experience a brain tingle (but here are some tips to try)asmr triggers vary significantly, richard says. they can be visual (in that you watch them happen in front of you or in a video), audio (in that you listen to them via recording or podcast) or tactile (in that you physically need to be touched for the sensation to happen).its different from experiencing the chills or goosebumps when you hear a song that moves you  or watch a scary movie because those sensations are triggered by a strong emotional response youre having. asmr is less emotional, and more characterized by that deep relaxation you feel.as has already been suggested, richard, smith, and poerio all agree that its probably the case that not everyone can experience asmr. (based on his work teaching asmr, richard suspects its a significant minority.)but, he adds, if youre curious if you fall in that camp, here are some tips for making it happen for you:1. try it out in a relaxing environmentstress can be inhibiting, richard says. so the more relaxed you are the more likely youll be able to experience asmr, he says  especially to start out with. try it when youre at home, just before bed, he says.2. try it in real-life, tooit also might be the case that you need an in-person physical trigger to experience asmr rather than being able to feel it after watching a youtube clip, richard adds. have someone play with your hair, touch your arm lightly, draw letters on your back with their fingers or whisper to you. asmr is ultimately about that personal connection, richard says.3. be open-mindedwhat works for someone may not be an asmr trigger for you  tapping versus hair brushing, for instance. there are a lot of different types of triggers, different asmr artists, and different styles of presenting triggers, richard says. be patient and be open to trying many triggers to find out which ones do work best or if any work at all.more relaxation and wellness trendshygge: unlocking denmarks secret to happinesswant more self-reliant, responsible kids? try selbstndigkeit, the german way.how the japanese art of kintsugi can help you deal with stressful situationsembracing pntsdrunk, the finnish way of drinking alone in your underwearwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

almost 80 percent of americans surveyed say theyve found conflicting information about what to eat  and what to avoid  causing them to second guess their choices.thats why nbc news better wants you to share your biggest dietary dilemmas with us. were collecting questions and calls for help  and we want to hear from you. well be highlighting selected responses on nbcnews.com without sharing your name.these entries will be reviewed and will be the subject of q&amp;as, social media events and content aimed at putting your dietary dilemmas to rest.please enter your comment here in 85 words or less, and feel free to share on social media with the hashtag #dietdilemma.

were all familiar with that thing that happens at target  the one where you walk in to buy dog biscuits and shampoo and push a cart with more than a hundred dollars worth of stuff out the door an hour later. it even has a name and an urban dictionary entry; its the target effect.its something many of us joke about, but this unintended overspending can wreak havoc on a familys finances and lead to money stress. if its a problem, whats to be done? avoid target altogether? its my favorite store to shop for household items so i didnt want to give it up, but repeated hundred  and even two hundred dollar trips  i hadnt budgeted for left me planning to stick with online shopping where id be less tempted by the latest must-have thing from hearth &amp; hand with magnolia or that good-smelling candle.but i wondered if it was possible to overcome the target effect with less drastic measures. to find out i talked with louisville-based licensed clinical psychologist kevin chapman, who specializes in anxiety and related disorders. and yes, according to chapman, it can be done. he shared his target intervention tips with nbc news better.a happy shopper is a spending shopperfirst, we have to understand how this effect works: in short, it just feels good to be in target. the lighting, the bright colors  it brightens your affect and you tend to have a pretty good time so its conducive to buying, chapman said. of course being able to stop at starbucks for a vanilla crme cold brew can also induce us to spend more time, he said. spending more time translates to spending more money  and buying things we didnt intend to.target is also very clever at placing things in strategic places to boost cross-selling, and many stores now are rolling out lifestyle settings that help shoppers visualize the goods in their own home. meanwhile theyre employing psychological pricing, chapman said. they give you the impression that youre getting a deal. its a dead simple trick, but one we fall prey to. because it has a 9 on the end of it it appears to be on sale, he said, so how could you pass it up?but we cant blame it all on the retailer. to understand how some of us are affected by targets sales-boosting techniques we should look at why others arent, chapman said.the target effect as a symptompeople who arent affected, i would consider to be much more emotionally regulated, he said. theyre not engaging in retail therapy  which is just code for shopping as an emotional behavior to provide relief from strong emotions.many people just have a hard time dealing with certain emotional experiences, say anxiety, he went on. so they try to do things to feel better. retail therapy makes them feel better temporarily but the problem is it contributes to more negative consequences. despite that, he said, since were creatures of habits, the next time im triggered i do what worked before, but it backfires and i feel like garbage.so the target effect is less its own thing, he said, than a symptom of a different problem.tools to rein your worst tendenciesstill, though, there are tools shoppers can use to prevent overbuying. one strategy is to have a strict budget and to know this is what i have every month, he said. thats not particularly sexy but stating that is important. frugal and financially consciousness people ... create a budget and dont engage in impulsive buying. i learned that myself during a period of unemployment in our household. when there was literally no money available to overspend we just didnt.but what if you are less disciplined and/or arent as financially limited? the only way to not succumb [to the target effect] is to reprogram your mentality about even going, chapman said.one thing i would encourage people to think about is the idea of not  quote unquote  window shopping. window shopping is a misnomer, so why are you wandering around target if you dont need to be there? this will decrease impulsive buying tendencies. if i dont need to shop and its not in my budget simply dont go to target. well, theres that. but what about once were there, and we need a few household things?give yourself a pep talk before heading inpeople who are emotionally regulated who wont fall victim, theyre choosing their thoughts and appraisals beforehand, kind of like pep talking, chapman said.we can all use these thoughts, he said. for instance, say i know i have a problem with target effect. before i go i have to be diligent enough to say im not drinking the kool-aid today.i have to strategically pick certain thoughts before i even get in my car that are conducive to only buying what i want to buy. key to these thoughts are that theyre short and easily memorizable, and realistic, he said.one example of a thought to be would be i only need detergent, chapman said. the reason that thought is important is the word need based on my budget, the only thing i need to purchase and the only reason i need to go is to purchase this product. [if i] rehearse that, my behavior is guided to the laundry aisle, [i] look at nothing else, and checkout.wait, really? just repeat to yourself you only need detergent? yes, chapman said. say, i budgeted for dog food so i put on a thought like i only need dog food. that dictates i can only buy dog food so if i buy anything else im violating my code.ok, but its very easy to see this thought turning into yes i only need dog food, but... right?but i see this cute rug on sale, or wouldnt it be nice to have this yummy smelling hand soap?need more backup? ask yourself these questionsin this case, chapman said, use disputing questions. these are all-purpose questions that force you to challenge [those] thoughts. before i go i need to practice that dialog. im only going for dog food but i find this other item conveniently nearby would make me feel better.whats the evidence that i need that [item], that it would make me feel good? you have to base it on evidence that i need that item. are you 100 percent sure you need to buy it? no, you want it. whats another perspective? i would regret it. but for this to work, he said, you have to practice it before you go.if you think it will take more than repeating some thoughts to combat your target effect behavior, theres another level, chapman said. drawing up on his experience with people with anxiety, he recommends exposure therapy.go into target practicing those mantras, and having a companion with [you], going in with the intention of that one item you choose in advance, purchase the item, flee the store, and after the fact, process how you feel emotionally after. if you didnt buy the poo-pourri, did the sky fall?now ask what did i learn? he said. you learn i can go to target and buy one thing. that forms a new association in your brain that tell you can buy one thing at target.now that association cant be rewritten overnight, he said; it can take some practice. but hes so confident, i would straight up take someone who tells me they are a victim of the target effect and take them in and show them, he said.looks like i know who to call next time i just need detergent.more shopping tips from your favorite storestargettrader joesstarbuckspanera breadwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

with more than $1.6b (yes, billion) in the mega millions jackpot and over $620m in the powerball jackpot, lottery fever is at an all-time high. yet, your chances of winning were only a truly miraculous 1-in-302.6 million for the mega millions, and your chance of winning powerball is something around 1-in-292 million. and the chance of winning both lotteries? something like, 1-in-88 quadrillion, according to cnbc.even with the chances of winning so minute, so many of us cant resist tossing away more even money in hopes of landing the big payoff. so why do we keep trying?for one, on some level, we all believe that money buys happiness. a recent swedish study found  surprise, surprise  that winning the lottery (as opposed to losing) really does lead to greater life satisfaction (although it doesnt seem to change the winners day-to-day happiness). its no wonder people who can least afford to play are also the most likely to spend money to get in the game. a study published in the journal of behavioral decision making found when people are made to feel subjectively poor, they end up buying more lottery tickets. and a 1999 duke university research paper found that people in virginia who made between $25k-$50k a year spent more than $91m on lotto tickets, where people who made more than $50k spent close to $70m and people who made $15k-$25k spent $35m.timothy m.d. fong, a clinical professor of psychiatry at the semel institute for neuroscience and human behavior at ucla, and co-director of the ucla gambling studies program says this discrepancy might come down to availability. for example, he says lottery tickets are sold in liquor stores which are more often found in lower-income neighborhoods. fong cautions against a commonly repeated phrase  that the \"lottery is a tax on the math impaired.\" he chalks it up to classism. theres no truth to this whatsoever, fong says.according to a 2016 gallup poll, roughly half of americans reported buying a lottery ticket within the last year.jackpots have grown bigger over the decadessince the 1960s, states have legalized lotteries to raise money. david g. schwartz, ph.d., director of the center for gaming research and instructor at the department of history at the university of nevada, las vegas, says, at first, lotteries werent advertised and drawings were rarely held. but come the 1970s, new jersey switched over to daily, easy-to-access drawings and when revenues grew quickly, other states quickly adopted the same model, says schwartz.at first, a million-dollar jackpot was considered big news, but as time went on, players became less excited by the possibility of winning only a few million dollars, he explains. todays gigantic jackpots stem from the late 1980s with the establishment of multi-state lotteries, which can offer jackpots surpassing $1b. the more states that join a particular lottery, the more people play and the bigger the potential jackpot  hence the currently mega mega millions and powerful powerball.the bigger the jackpot, the slimmer the odds. so why do we all want in on it?fong says what were really buying is the fantasy that we might win, as opposed to really believing we will. americans love frenzy, he says. we love spectacular scenes and big events. when you think about it, lining up to buy lottery tickets is completely unnecessary, but people do it because they want to be a part of the spectacle. its a cultural thing.for some, a fixation with the lottery can cross a linemost people dont think you can be addicted to the lottery, but it can be a form of gambling addiction, fong explains. the lottery is gambling by strict definition of gambling, and one of the major forms of legalized gambling in america. its highly regulated and tightly controlled, but at the end of the day, a gambling disorder is putting something of value at risk. if youre doing that, theres no difference between playing the lottery and blackjack.for people with a gambling disorder, fong notes large jackpots can be triggering because tickets are so readily available every day of the week, and theyre relatively inexpensive. the hallmark of all addiction is continuing with a behavior despite harmful consequences. and just like any other addiction, lottery addicts lose time, money, productivity and they continue to do it despite financial damage or an inability to get their job done, says fong.like with any other disorder, those who wonder if they are addicted to gambling should seek treatment. these are mental health conditions that co-exist with depression and anxiety, says fong. if youre worried about it or wondering if you have a problem, you should get connected with health services. theres usually a phone number to call for help right on the back of a lottery ticket.as for the rest of us, our two dollars will likely only buy us the fantasy of winning  which is a compelling fantasy for absolutely anyone.more from betteryour brain on a dietsmiling can trick your brain into happiness (and boost your health)your brain on prayer and meditationthe science behind being hangrywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

its the store we love to hate. ok, maybe not hate because we really do love it. but its well-understood among ikea shoppers that when you enter the cavernous blue building its like another dimension of time and space where we lose track of where and when we are, not to mention why were there. were seduced by the promise of the perfect, hygge (well, lagom if we want to be swedish about it) life we can have at home if we just buy every single thing so conveniently displayed in the swedish retailers showroom.entering the store were dazzled by possibility, but somewhere between the billy bookcase and the pong chair the truth reveals itself. were in a gauntlet, a lab-rat maze and the only way out is to load up our carts and give them all our money. and then the fun really begins because were headed home to somehow turn a bunch of boxes and parts into a new living room or bedroom and not break up with our partner or turn to unhealthful habits in the process.an ikea expedition is something to gear up for, particularly if you have to factor in a road trip to get to their nearest store. never fear, if youre inspired by the gorgeous new catalog to make the trip, we have some tips to not only survive the trip, but maybe even emerge feeling victorious.jules yap of ikea hackers and ikea spokesperson janice simonsen weighed in, and im along to supplement with some hard-won wisdom earned from outfitting much of several apartments via ikea.do your homeworkikea is not a place to aimlessly wander unless you have unlimited time and funds at your disposal. first up, always check the website before a trip for specials, yap told nbc news better. better to see how that might influence your shopping list before you set foot in the store. and for a productive trip dont go empty handed, said yap. bring measurements of your space and photos to help you make decisions.so you dont have to whip out the tape measure at every stop, all measurements are listed on the pricetag, simonsen said.stay focusedyou may have an entire new apartment to furnish, but know your limits. its tempting to try to do everything at once, but marathons are not a recipe for sanity. i recommend deciding on a specific project or room to shop for to keep the trip more organized, simonsen said, noting all the great ikea bargains can cause a shopper to lose focus!join the familya must-do, yap said, is to sign up for the ikea family card. you earn points that can be redeemed to offset your next purchase. and there are also exclusive discounts for ikea family members. those discounts change every month; at the time of this writing members get 20 percent off duvet covers sets, curtains and kitchen pots. whats more, you get free coffee or tea in their in-store restaurant, because caffeine is necessary. and one lucky person at each store will win $100 by using the card  youre eligible even if you just swipe it at the store kiosk and dont buy anything.level up with the ikea visa card or project cardyap also suggests the stores credit card. the no-annual fee visa comes with a 25 buck bonus for signing up plus rewards for charging up a storm at ikea. youll get five percent back on what you spend at the store as well as at their installation and assembly services. it drops to three percent on dining, grocery and utility purchase with everything else a one percent reward. (just be careful if you dont plan to pay it off immediately; the standard purchase apr is a whopping 21.99 percent.) rewards come in $15 increments along with your billing statement and you cant sit around on them  theyre only good for 45 days.another card option gives you more time to pay for bigger purchases. ikeas project card offers 0 percent interest for 6 months on a purchase of $500 or more; 0 percent interest for 12 months on $1,500 or more; or for really big expenditures, 0 percent interest for 24 months on $5,000 or more. if you dont pay the balance in full youre hit with that 21.99 percent afterwards.how to get in and outif youre determined to make this a quick trip and want to avoid the worst of the crowds, yap says mondays are usually the quietest day. or time your visit to arrive right before closing time. usually the crowd would have dispersed and no queues, she said.ive also skipped the showroom and headed straight for the marketplace to avoid temptation and slash the miles covered.otherwise, yap said, expect to spend three to four hours at a store. wear comfortable shoes. bring a water bottle. id add to that: never. go. in hungry. or hangry will soon follow. either pack a couple of snacks, or hit the affordable restaurant inside as soon as you get there for some sustenance to see you through.know when a sale is a saleikea is famous for sales like their kitchen event (happening now if youre in the market for a new kitchen!). but keep in mind, yap cautioned, at an ikea sale not everything is on sale. i always buy only those things on sale. there is a chance non sale items may get a new, lower price after the annual sale. while youre shopping, she added, look out for the yellow or red signs. they usually mean they are on offer or its a great deal.and if you sprung for your ikea cabinets and then the sale hits the next week? get in touch with your store; customers have reported getting the difference back.you can save even morewhile their prices are already sometimes ludicrously low, there are even better bargains to be found. dont miss out on the as-is [section], yap said.this department is where display pieces and discontinued items are offered up for even lower prices, simonsen explained. theories online vary as to the best time to hit the as-is, but while it seems theres really no bad time, from late monday afternoon (after the crew have had a chance to restock after the weekend) through wednesday may possibly have the best selection. yap recommends checking with an ikea co-worker at your store though, to see what their replenishing schedule is.and think outside the big box. there are also lots of pre-loved ikea items on ebay and craigslist, yap said. they could be useful for hacks or parts replacements.bring in reinforcements (and avoid divorce court)and im not talking a shopping companion (although that could be helpful!). last year ikea bought taskrabbit, the the on-demand platform for hiring people to do the things you dont want to do (and whats higher on that list than assemble furniture!?). taskers can be available as soon as the next day so youre free to do things more enjoyable than parse the instruction cartoons and curse.skip the store altogethersometimes the best way to ikea is to not go to ikea. when i outfitted my full-time airbnb i debated driving 90 miles to the nearest store or ponying up $89 for picking and delivery of a mini-sink and a slew of odds and ends (no furniture). in the end i decided id probably save the $89 in not making impulse purchases, so opted to have ikea come to me. it was my most enjoyable ikea shopping experience yet, and the package delivery had the feel of christmas morning to it.more shopping tips from your favorite storescostcotargettrader joesstarbuckspanera breadwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

search #mealprep on any social media platform, and youll likely find pictures of the same healthy meal laid out in perfectly portioned containers. prepping meals at the beginning of the week is becoming increasingly popular for a variety of reasons  time, convenience and health, to name a few. but is eating the same thing everyday a good idea? like most things in the nutrition realm, the answer isnt black and white.although all registered dietitians have their own nutrition philosophies, most can agree that eating nutritious foods is the key to achieving a healthy lifestyle  and that taking time at the beginning of the week to plan out your meals can make a big difference in how successful you are with sticking to a healthy diet. but is sticking to the same rotation of food combos doing us a disservice? we asked the several experts for their take on eating the same foods everyday.the pros of eating the same foods everydayit creates healthier habits: research suggests that people who practiced at least five healthy lifestyle habits throughout their life lived almost a decade longer than those who didnt. not surprisingly, one of those habits was practicing a healthy eating pattern, including getting the daily recommended amounts of vegetables, fruit, nuts, whole grains, polyunsaturated fatty acids and omega-3 fatty acids and limiting processed meats, sugar sweetened beverages, trans fat and sodium. the only problem is that many americans find healthy eating to be an overwhelming task. when forming new habits, its easy to get overwhelmed by trying to do too many things (or eat too many new foods) at once, says chelsey amer, ms, rdn, cdn, virtual dietitian and creator of citnutritionally.com. to make it more accessible, i suggest learning how to prepare a few healthier foods you love, and stick with those until youre ready to expand your repertoire. research by the american heart association implies that greater dietary diversity is associated with unhealthy eating habits, such as higher intakes of processed foods, refined grains and sugar-sweetened beverages and lower intakes of fresh fruits and vegetables. so if youre still trying to establish a healthy eating pattern, it may pay off to start by choosing a few recipes to make consistently, and then slowly adding new foods from there.it may reduce calorie intake: although calories are not the only important nutritional stat, they are a factor in weight and overall health. repeated exposure to the same foods has been found to reduce overall energy intake in women due to food habituation, says amer. she explains this phenomenon: when there are a wide variety of foods available to sample, you may (inadvertently) delay feelings of fullness or satisfaction from your meal and increase the amount of food you eat. for the 66 percent of american adults who are overweight or obese, eating the same foods everyday may help reduce their caloric intake.it can save money: it doesnt take a scientist to prove that eating at home is cheaper than eating at a restaurant. we can all agree that a pasta dish doesnt actually cost $15 to make like it does at your favorite italian joint. but, there are many people who argue that healthy eating is too expensive, too. it may not be setting you back as much as you think: a meta-analysis found that nutritious foods only cost about $1.50 more per day than unhealthy foods. and that didnt take into account the cost of eating out  so if youre guilty of ordering delivery a bit too often, it could actually save you money to load up on healthy food for the week. if youre someone who gets overwhelmed in the produce aisle and ends up haphazardly tossing ingredients into the cart, you may have some sticker shock at checkout. and if you arent able to get to all of your produce before it goes bad, thats more money down the drain. in this way, focusing on a few kinds of produce, and using it to create meals throughout the week, is a smart way to ensure that you put all the produce you buy to work  and none of it ends up in the trash.it reduces stress: have you ever scrolled through instagram looking for dinner inspiration for what seems like hours, only to pick up the phone and order your usual? figuring out what to eat three times per day can be exhausting, and stress can lead to uncontrolled and emotional eating. this is where having a few staple meals on rotation can help. eating the same thing everyday will definitely take the guess work out of choosing a meal, and it provides a routine, says kate mcgowan, rd. most adults already have enough on their metaphorical plate and not having to think about what to eat can reduce some stress in your everyday life and make it easier to stick to a healthy diet.the cons of eating the same foodsalthough eating the same thing everyday may sound like the simple solution to all your eating woes, its not without drawbacks. experts agree that there are some cons associated with repetitive dietary patterns.it limits the nutrients you eat: eating the rainbow is a simple strategy that dietitians teach children and adults alike. consuming a wide variety of colorful fruits and vegetables ensures that you get an abundance of different vitamins, minerals and phytochemicals in your diet. if you only eat orange vegetables, like carrots and sweet potatoes, you will be getting a good amount of fiber, vitamin a and vitamin c, but you will be missing out on vitamin k, folate and lutein found in dark green vegetables like kale or broccoli, says mcgowan. not only that, greater variety of healthful food items has been associated with sustained weight loss. i like to emphasize food groups instead of single foods within each group; for example, instead of choosing brown rice for every meal, consider other whole grains, says allison knott, ms, rdn, cssd.its not great for gut health: an interesting piece of new research suggests that limiting dietary diversity may actually be bad for your gut. the researchers hypothesize that eating certain foods selectively nourishes single species of microbiota in the gut and provides a competitive advantage over others. it seems that a more varied diet leads to a rich and diverse microbiome, both of which are key indicators for a healthy gut. while there is still much research to be done in the area of gut health, this only provides more reason to incorporate a wide variety of produce into your diet.the bottom linemeal prepping is a time-saving technique for healthy eating, but there are downfalls to choosing the same foods everyday. the good news is that you dont need to give up meal prepping in bulk all together, but instead, think about switching things up from week to week. as long as youre mixing up the ingredients you use each week, youre eating a variety of nutrients over time. after all, our health is the average of our choices over time, says amer. changing the menu from week to week doesnt require a major overhaul though. i recommend making simple substitutions; instead of always opting for chicken, choose seafood twice a week to get important omega-3s, says mcgowan.another simple tip for switching up your foods is choosing different options for lunch and dinner. amer adds that those who are new to meal prepping should keep it simple with two different meals you can eat throughout the week (one for lunch and one for dinner), and then add more variety as healthy eating becomes more of a habit. it provides variety and ensures you are eating fruits and vegetables with different micronutrient benefits, says mcgowan.instead of getting hung up on specific foods, the consensus is to focus on food groups or nutrients.i suggest protein and fiber at every meal. i might recommend a salad every day, but mixing up the protein (eggs, beans, meat, nuts) and fiber (vegetables, nuts) options transforms a boring salad into a new meal with nutritional diversity, says mcgowan. knott recommends making a list of foods you enjoy in each food group and choosing two or more foods from each to build a satisfying meal. i also encourage learning about the seasonal fruits and vegetables in your area so that you can add variety to your diet, based on the seasons, says knott.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

american work culture is guilty of driving us to work longer and harder, leaving our energy levels at a lull. in fact, according to a 2015 survey from yougov, 54 percent of americans sleep only 6 hours per night and still wake up tired on 4 or more days per week, and 27 percent of americans manage to get a full 7 to 8 hours a night and still report feeling tired or fatigued four or more days a week.why are we so fatigued, even if were getting sleep? its likely because fatigue and sleepiness arent the same thing, says dr. matthew ebben, ph.d., associate professor of psychology and clinical neurology and sleep expert at weill cornell medicine and new york-presbyterian, in new york city.ebben explains that a temporary lull in energy levels, or a little sleepiness around mid-late afternoon, isnt really due to fatigue but a dip in your circadian rhythms, or internal body clock, which play a key role in regulating your sleep/wake cycles.your underlying sleep drive changes throughout the day, ebben explains. most people have a little dip in circadian rhythms mid-afternoon, depending on when they sleep and wake up, usually between 1-4 pm. when you have this dip, you can feel sleepy for a half an hour to an hour. this mid-afternoon lull is usually when we tend to reach for a cup of coffee, or something sweet, to give our energy levels a boost to get through the rest of the work day.is it just the midday slump or something more?ebben says the first step to figure out if sleep or fatigue is causing your lack of energy is, quite simply, to get more sleep and see. if you sleep a lot longer past your weekday alarm on weekends, your body might be trying to make up for lost time. lets say your alarm wakes you up every day at 6 am, but youre sleepy during the day. on the weekends, without an alarm, you sleep until 9. what that tells you is youre chronically sleep deprived during the week, he explains.fatigue, however, is another story  and the common culprit likely wont surprise you. stress is a common cause of fatigue in that it results in the release of inflammatory molecules that enter the brain and cause the feeling of fatigue, says peg baim, m.s., n.p., director of clinical training at benson-henry institute for mind body medicine at massachusetts general hospital.a better way to boost your energy levelsregardless of root cause, how can we best pull through these energy lulls without reaching for coffee and sugary treats? we enlisted the help of a few experts to share energy hacks we busy people can employ when were at a low ebb.1. get a move on first thingstudies show that exercise improves cognition and releases endorphins  also known as feel-good hormonesthat boost your mood and energy levels, especially after high-intensity workouts. so, if youre dragging yourself out of bed and need to wake up quick, a few burpees (5-10) will maximize blood flow to your brain and body and help you get alert, says bo babenko, dpt, a physical therapist at halevy life.2. eat breakfastthough its tempting to subsist on coffee until lunchtime, studies show that eating breakfast can slightly boost your brain power. and, as weve reported before, having a protein-packed meal first thing can help silence signals in your brain that can lead to sugar cravings later on, trigger signals in your brain that make you feel full.3. get up out of your chairto keep your energy flowing throughout the day, be sure to take movement breaks. when it comes to fighting fatigue, exercise is key, says baim. aim for 30 minutes 5 days a week, at least 4 hours before sleep, she recommends. if you start to feel droopy at your desk, babenko says these chair press-ups (make sure the chair is sturdy) are his go-to recommendation for office workers who need a quick pick-me-up. or, if youre sagging through through a marathon meeting or long client dinner, he recommends sneaking into the restroom to do 10 squats for a quick pick-me-up.4. combine protein and carbs for meals and snacksthat 4 oclock sugar craving may feel like its giving you a boost, but the blood sugar crash youll feel a few hours afterward will leave you ready for bed right after dinner. to keep your energy levels (and mood) even, snack on a combo of protein and carbs  like yogurt with fruit and nuts or a protein shake with fruits blended in  says deena adimoolam, assistant professor of medicine, endocrinology, diabetes and bone disease at icahn school of medicine at mount sinai.5. mellow out in the eveningas baim mentioned above, stress is a common cause of fatigue. so how can we best de-stress when we dont have 90 minutes for a yoga class? positive thoughts buffer stress, so keep your brain out of trouble 2-3 hours pre-sleep, she recommends. all negative thoughts turn on the brains stress response and will make it harder to get high quality sleep, or to fall and stay asleep. instead of worrying, focus on positive thoughts, such as positive expectations and appreciations. she also recommends meditation as a way to counter stress and lead the brain into the same eeg pattern as the first stage of sleep, so you can ease yourself into bed time and catch the zs you so desperately need. these apps and expert zen hacks can help you get started.6. get to bed on time  consistentlyour culture works against sleep so most dont realize how essential sleep is to overall mood, energy, stress tolerance, metabolism and even appetite drives, says baim. ebben also says getting enough sleep usually helps boost alertness the next day. but aside from what you might read, sleep solutions arent one-size-fits-all. youd never go into a shoe store and ask for the national average sized shoe, says ebben. like any biological system, you, as an individual, have to figure out how much sleep you need.to get more sleep during the week, ebben recommends slowly dialing back your bed time by 15 minutes, every five days or so. if you find yourself staring at the ceiling instead of passing out, you might be in bed too early. once you find your sweet spot, stick to it consistently to maintain your sleep quality  sleeping in on weekends can cause you to stay up past your bedtime, making it that much harder to adjust come monday morning  and to do those burpees.ready to get more zzzs? read these and rest bettera guide to better sleep7 ways to actually get to bed an hour earlier tonight8 sleep mistakes you can fix tonightthis is how to keep a sleep diary to actually improve your sleep16 ways to get a better nights sleep without popping a pillwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

you know the classic fear of running out of money in retirement? you probably do  more than 60 percent of us fear running out of money in retirement more than we fear death, according to a survey by financial firm allianz. turns out those worries are unfounded for the majority of current retirees a recent blackrock study has uncovered that nearly 20 years into retirement, most retirees still have 80 percent of their pre-retirement savings. its not just that they didnt get the memo that you cant take it with you  according to the study, these retirees have been incredibly thoughtful about making their money last: theyre great at sticking with a budget, they actively dont want to spend down their assets, and theyre risk averse.after a lifetime of hearing save, save, save, many retirees start to savor financial security over spending, says anne ackerley, head of blackrocks u.s. &amp; canada defined contribution group. even so, we were surprised by the findings, and we started to think, is this a good thing or a bad thing? of course, theres an upside to not outliving your money. on the other hand, if the way youre doing that is by scrimping through the last 30 years of life, thats not good either.compounding the conundrum, no matter how much you have saved, longevity is both misunderstood and hard to predict, as are future health expenses. so while some retirees can start enjoying their money a bit more, others still need to conserve. the big question is: where do you fall?caution for future retireesfolks headed into retirement over the next couple of decades probably wont be able to retain as much of their savings as the group of retirees blackrock studied. why? well, a few things: they have less money saved overall, the market leading up to their retirement hasnt been as strong, and a much lower percentage of them have pensions, ackerley says. that combination of economic factors has us with a different situation for todays retirees. the shift from pensions to 401(k) plans means that people wont have that monthly check  theyll have a pool of assets, and theyll have to figure out how to spend them down.additionally, future retirees will face higher healthcare costs, including those for long term care, cautions chris schaefer, head of retirement plan practice at mv financial, based in betheseda, md. from 2006 to 2016, average healthcare deductibles increased from $303 to over $1,200, and total out of pocket spending rose by 54 percent, from $525 in 2006 to $806 in 2016, according to kaiser. those numbers are only going to increase as the years pass, schaefer says.how everyone can make their money lastdavid peterson, cfp and managing director of united capital in denver, is optimistic. he says that his clients all recognize there will be higher costs in their future, and as a result most of them have taken steps to increase their 401(k) contributions. it used to be that they would only put in enough money in to get the match, but now theyre seeing that the match is the minimum you should do.beefing up all your accounts is a great step towards kissing retirement money worries goodbye  here are a few others.dont put your childs college education ahead of your retirement. its like on an airplane  you have to put your mask on first before you can help others. your retirement savings are the most important thing you can do for yourself, schaefer cautions.automate everything. whenever possible, have money automatically taken out of your account and put into savings so you dont even have to think about it, ackerley says.dont relocate (or downsize) without doing your homework. ive seen folks move to florida or north carolina and then in six months, they decide to move back home, but this puts them behind the 8-ball financially. if they had done their research, they wouldnt end up in that position, schaefer says.pay off your mortgage. go into retirement as debt-free as possible, schaefer says. if a third of your income is going towards paying off your mortgage, your budget is going to be tight.understand how much you have in your accounts and how many years worth of living expenses your money will buy you. $500,000 sounds like a lot of money, but if it has to last you till youre 100, you might not have enough, ackerley says. a financial planner can help you work through the math.consider buying your own pension. one way to insure (literally) that your money will last as long as you do is by converting a portion of your assets at retirement into a paycheck using an insurance product called an immediate annuity. its not the right move for all of your assets  or all people  but it is a good way to make sure your fixed costs will always be covered.most importantly, dont be afraid to enjoyyoure always going to be doing a balancing act between spending too much and not spending enough, peterson says. if you want to travel early on in retirement, do it, because you may not be able to travel later. its important that you spend your money while youre well enough to do things you enjoy, or youre going to have regrets. its our life experiences, not our possessions, that mean the most to us, that we remember.with kathryn tugglehow to save more moneycommon behaviors that stifle our retirement savingshow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayswhat you need to know about retirement at every agehow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

serdar tuncali was a skinny kid until he moved from turkey to the united states in 2009. by the time he was married with a full-time job as a cancer researcher, he had begun to pack on the pounds, he says.we started going out to restaurants and we stopped working out, and i gained some weight, tuncali tells nbc news better.tuncali, 33, tried different weight-loss techniques. he read best-selling diet books. he juggled diets like the paleo diet, the south beach diet and the atkins diet, but none worked.in september 2017, during a doctors visit, he was shocked to see he weighed 230 pounds.seeing 230 was a big surprise, especially putting myself in the obese category, he says, because i never identified myself that way.thats when the phoenix, arizona resident says he stopped relying on dieting gimmicks.i went in pubmed and looked at research, and just started to approach it scientifically, he says. and then i realized that, study after study, it all comes down to calorie balance.stop obsessing over perfectiontuncali switched his focus from eating only healthy foods to eating mostly healthy foods. he adopted the 80/20 rule, which requires you to consume 80 percent of your food from healthy calories and the other 20 percent from less healthy foods. this rule helped him adopt a healthier lifestyle while still allowing him to eat some foods he enjoyed.80 percent of your calories come from whole foods  foods considered healthy  fruits and vegetables, lean meats, healthy fats, he says. if 80 percent of your calories come from that, the other 20 percent is not going to affect your diet.its important to have a plan around when you will eat each meal and stick with it, tuncali says. but he says its equally important to change your habits around food.use distraction to manage hungermany people form habits around eating that can make weight loss difficult, tuncali says.like, if you are watching a movie and you are eating popcorn every time youre watching a movie, as soon as you start watching a movie, you feel like popcorn, he says.he says a big part of losing weight involved changing these kinds of habits.i realized this as i was getting my masters degree  on the days im working on my homework assignment, i would sit down for hours and not even think about food, he says. but if im not doing anything  like if im watching something  i couldnt go for more than two hours without eating something.to help change his eating habits, tuncali started a weight loss blog \"nerd getting fit.\" spending more of his time writing and less time watching tv distracted him from cravings, he says.i spent hours on researching and writing, and before you know it, its like dinner time already and im not even feeling hungry, he says.the blogger adds: if youre active, like writing, or youre working on your backyard and youre doing something like a hobby  like woodwork  using your mind and body at the same time, you can go for hours without thinking about food.adopt strength training into your exercise routinestuncali also changed his exercise habits by adopting strength training into his workouts. the increased muscle mass boosted his metabolism, he explains, which helps him maintain a healthy weight.if [people] focus on preserving lean body mass by eating high protein and by working out and lifting weights or some kind of strength training, they will focus on losing fat only and preserving lean body mass, so when the diet is over they can go back to normal [eating] and maintain [their weight], he explains.after 7 months, tuncali lost 47 pounds.he says he feels awesome.like physically, i felt younger, tuncali says.how to change your eating habits:eat healthy 80 percent of the time: while its important to change eating habits, you dont need to eat only healthy foods to lose weight. adopting rules like the 80/20 rule will help you focus on eating mostly healthy while still having some foods you enjoy.use distraction to manage hunger: focus on changing habits you associate with food. for example, if you tend to snack while you watch tv, then you learn to associate tv with snacking. but if you adopt new habits that force your mind to be active, like blogging or knitting, for example, youre less likely to have those cravings.adopt strength training into your exercise routine: whereas cardio only tends to burn calories, strength training increases muscle mass, which boosts metabolism. with more muscle, youll be able to eat more while staying lean (as long as you stick to eating mostly healthy foods).more weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

move over seven wonders of the world! were obsessed with the five blue zones, the mysterious regions where people statistically live the longest.these five locales, sardinia, italy; the islands of okinawa, japan; nicoya peninsula in costa rica; ikaria, greece; and loma linda, california; dont appear to have too much in common at first glance. theyre all relatively warm year-round, fairly small, remote and close to the ocean.but the cultural differences far outweigh these broadly shared attributes, and its safe to say that a person from loma linda would experience a bit of culture shock if suddenly transplanted to okinawa (and vice versa).so whats the secret? why do people in these places, despite their striking cultural differences, share the likelihood of sailing into their 90s and beyond, often eluding heart disease and even cancer?we spoke with dan buettner, the author, educator and explorer who discovered the blue zones (and coined the term) to learn what makes these areas and their residents so special, and how we can bring some blue zone magic into our own lives.a plant-based diet that incorporates beans is essentialyour average menu in okinawa may not have feature the same dishes as that from an eatery in a sardinian village, but you will discover parallels among core ingredients  just as you will in any of the other blue zones.in all five places, the common denominators include mostly a plant-based diet, buettner tells nbc news better. theres five pillars to every blue zone diet: whole grains, greens, tuberous (sweet potatoes or potatoes), nuts and beans. the most important one is beans. a cup of beans a day could add two to three years to your life.as for what type of bean to consume, you really cant go wrong with any, but for your own palette (and to get a full variety of nutrients) you should mix up the types of beans you consume, and though canned beans are okay, buettner recommends using dried beans when possible, if only to not toss another can into the world.low on beef and dairy, big on tea and red winebeef and cow dairy are not significant in these blue zone diets, buettner notes, though youll find some sheep and goats milk. additionally, no more than three eggs are consumed per week.as for beverages, blue zones are heavy on water and tea.theyre drinking herbal tea all day long, says buettner. in okinawa its often green tea, while in ikaria its usually a tea made with oregano, rosemary or mint. they drink no more than two glasses of wine a day.the wine choices depend, but buettner recommends a garnet red variety called cannonau. its filled with artery scrubbing antioxidants.coffee is also embraced in the morning, though it should be noted that in loma linda, california, the only american destination on this list, the blue zone effect is attributed to the predominance of seventh day adventists who tend to abstain from caffeine, do not drink alcohol and lean heavily toward vegetarianism.loneliness can shave eight years off your life; community and purpose are paramountbuettner stresses that the beauty of the blue zones is not one or two big things, but a constellation of little things that add up. diet is just one part of the picture, while social activity, community and a strong sense of ones purpose are other integral factors.people [in blue zones] arent waking up in the morning rudderless. theyre driven by life meaning and purpose, buettner says. theyre investing in family, keeping their minds engaged and theres no existential stress of being worthless in life like so many americans. the option to be lonely shaves eight years off life expectancy here [in the u.s] but that does not exist in blue zones. you cant walk outside your front door in these regions without bumping into somebody you know, and this is all so much more powerful than we think.humans are extremely social creatures, and from a young age we learn the importance of teamwork and collaboration (for instance, buettner says, young children who cant lift a bucket of water on their own will understand that if they together theyll succeed, whereas a young chimpanzee may not figure this out).were genetically hardwired to crave social interaction and when you dont have it, theres a level of subconscious stress that grates away at you, he adds.walking everyday is so simple and so effectivethree of the five blue zones (okinawa, ikaria and sardinia) are located in very narrow, steep regions that didnt always have access to industrial roads. this element of being tucked away in remote hilltop isolation not only protected these zones from the corrosive effects of globalization, buettner says, it forces people to form tight social connections with one another, and to incorporate a lot of up and downhill walking into their daily routines.walking is one of the best forms of exercise and you can do it without thinking about it, says buettner, who encourages people to rely less on cars and more on public transportation so that they have to walk more. he also recommends bringing a dog into your life if youre struggling to get outdoors much.adopting a dog is really the best blue zone strategies there is, he says. its that perfect nudge to get you walking everyday.theres no magic blue zone potion  and thats kind of the pointultimately, the secrets of the blue zone are not so secret after all. they each prioritize health and happiness in ways that were increasingly learning about and embracing.were all looking for magic dietary pills or serums or supplements, but you see none of that in the blue zones, says buettner. its mostly small things driven by the right environment. if america wants to get healthier, it will drop the freneticism with diets and disciplines and shift the focus to changing the environments of our cities, schools and workplaces.we can also build blue zone values into our own lives. you can get started assessing where you are and what you might want to change by taking the true vitality test by blue zones. (i took the test and found it helpful and slightly worrying, such that i changed my dinner plans and decided: a. not to eat alone and b. to opt for whole grains instead of french fries.)jumpstart your blue zone bliss with this suggested menusuzanne dixon, a registered dietitian, epidemiologist and medical writer shares her tips for a day of blue zone-style eating in the menu below:breakfast: oatmeal with blueberries and banana + 1 cup greek yogurt + coffee with cinnamon and cardamom.snack: handful of walnuts and dried cherries + cup of green tea.lunch: bean burrito with shredded, sauted carrots, kale and cabbage. add cumin, chili powder and pinch of salt for taste.snack: apple with cashew butter + cup of chamomile, rose hip, hibiscus or other herbal teadinner: sauted salmon with lemon juice + olive oil, thyme, salt and pepper + side of barley with chopped dried apricots &amp; slivered almonds + 1/2 sweet potato + rubbed kale or chard salad (or ceasar salad  skip the croutons and go light on the dressing).dixons pro-tip: if you want to really go for something fun and new, make your entree in this dinner as follows: fresh tomato wedges topped with seared skinless/boneless sardines and drizzled with olive oil and sprinkled with sea salt.and enjoy these meals in good company, if possible.people eat to live, they dont live to eat, dixon says of the typical blue zone behavior towards food. each eating opportunity is a time for connection with others, being with family and a time for gratitude for all of the good things in their lives. they take the time to savor food, enjoy company and slow down for a bit.more wellness trends from around the worldhygge: unlocking denmarks secret to happinessmove over, hygge. meet csagach, the latest cozy wellness trend.want more self-reliant, responsible kids? try selbstndigkeit, the german way.how the japanese art of kintsugi can help you deal with stressful situationsembracing pntsdrunk, the finnish way of drinking alone in your underwearwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its easy to get blindsided by the disasters or unexpected expenses life throws at you. im talking about things like car accidents, medical emergencies, getting laid off or even spilling coffee on your laptop.thats why i created a stupid mistakes fund to hedge against financial disasters. this is an emergency fund i use for dumb mistakes and money pitfalls.if youre like the majority of americans, youre likely not financially prepared when those things happen. so when they do occur, youre going to be looking at a hefty bill with no good way to pay it.thats why you need to build an emergency fund. this is a pool of money set aside for things like:medical billsauto repairhouse repaireconomic downturnsjob lossfinancial theftonce you have it, youll have the peace-of-mind knowing youre ready for most all financial hardships.to create one, you just need to do three things.step 1: determine the amount you needa good rule of thumb is to set aside enough money for three to six months of expenses. if you lose your income, youre going to have to keep yourself and/or your family afloat while you find a job. thats why three to six months of expenses is a good benchmark.that includes things like:rentmortgage paymentscar paymentsgroceriesutility billsadd all of these expenses up to figure out roughly how much you need for your emergency fund. it doesnt have to be perfect. a ballpark estimate is a good place to start.for example, if you find that you need $1,000 a month to get by, your emergency fund should be around $3,000 to $6,000.tip: if $3,000 was your goal, and you were putting away $500 toward building your fund, itd take you six months to get there.thats not very long, and youll be better positioned for financial hardship than the majority of your peers.the best part: you can start building your emergency fund passively with a simple system  which brings us to step 2: open a sub-savings accountan emergency fund is just a collection of money set aside for an emergency. you can put it into a checking account, savings account or in a shoebox under your bed (i do not suggest this).my advice: use a sub-savings account.sub-savings accounts are smaller accounts you have along with your regular savings account. you can use them for specific savings goals like a down payment for a house, your wedding, or vacations. you can even give your account a nickname to reflect your savings goals.using a sub-savings account gives you a huge psychological benefit. when you deposit your money into specific accounts for your goals, youre going to be much more likely to achieve them.call your bank and ask if they offer them. chances are they do. however, if you need some suggestions for banks with sub-savings accounts, here are my suggestions:capital one 360 / ing direct (this is the one i use)ally bankmarcuscreate a sub-savings account labeled emergency fund. when you have it, you can start to automate your earnings to flow into that account.step 3: automate your systemautomating your finances is a great way to make your money work for you. this system allows you to invest and save without manually moving your money around. when you get your paycheck at the beginning of the month, your money goes to exactly where it needs to go automatically.and its simple: spend just an hour calling your utilities and credit card companies, and ask them to bill you at the beginning of the month (or whenever you receive your paycheck).when that day hits, your money is going to flow from your checking account to these areas.you can set it up so that a portion of your income goes into your emergency fund as well. to start, i suggest putting 5 percent of your monthly take-home pay into the fund.once you have your system automated, congratulations! youre now on your way to having an emergency fund and ensuring your financial security.4 tips for your emergency fundonce you have your fund, here are four things you should keep in mind:tighten your belt. if you lose your income and have to dip into your emergency fund, youre likely going to have to make some sacrifices to save more money  at least for the time being. that means no more fancy dinners, expensive broadway shows and putting down payments on new teslas. of course, you dont have to do this as long as you factor it into your savings goals.take a look at two years of your spending. if you take stock of how much you spent for emergencies in the last two years, youll find that a lot of your financial emergencies are predictable. for example, i discovered i had two speeding tickets over two years, so i accounted that into my fund.start at $100. by the end of the year, if you made a financial mistake or encountered an emergency, you have $1,200 to spend on it. if not, then you can treat yourself. if you havent dipped into the fund all year, feel free to take a portion or even all of that money and spend it on something you like. consider it a reward for not making any dumb financial mistakes all year.follow those tips, and youll be ready for most all emergencies.ramit sethi is the author of the new york times bestseller, i will teach you to be rich. for more tips on investing, check out i will teach you to be rich, where he writes about money and psychology.more from betterhow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to negotiate anything, according to neurosciencesmart money moves to make now to improve your finances in 2019want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

every relationship has its own unique culture, according to david and constantino khalaf, authors of the upcoming book modern kinship: a queer guide to christian marriage.for example, some couples are loud and boisterous, while others are quiet homebodies who like structure in their relationships, the men explain.every couple seems to operate along its own set of rules and along its own internal beliefs and tenants, david khalaf told nbc news better. and that got us thinking about, well, how can we be more intentional about the culture we set for our own relationships?the portland, oregon couple created what they call a culture covenant. the covenant is a document where they lay out a written list of their shared values.we already had a culture in our relationship, but we thought, can we actually spell that out? can we actually name what those things are and see if we actually agree with them? or see if there are things about the culture of our relationship that we actually like and want to change, david says.the men say the covenant allows them to be intentional about having shared meaning, which helps guide their relationship through the ups and downs of marriage.they say any couple can do it. heres how.sit down together and discuss the culture of your relationshipshortly after the couple got married in 2016, they sat down and created covenant over a few glasses of wine.we sat down and said, what do we do that we appreciate about our relationship and want to keep? david recalls.the men say their covenant focuses on both practical and aspirational values.for example, the men say it was important for them to be able to be vulnerable and share their feelings  so they added that to the top of the list.we grew up in a culture where men arent always invited to share their feelings and be in touch with their feelings, says david, and for us it was important to name that as a value in our relationship, and for us it was important to welcome feelings.the couple also focused on values that would help them navigate conflict. they say values like no one gets the final say all the time and we do not shout or curse at each other help guide them through stressful times.it kind of functions in our lives as we have discussions about decisions that we have to make or ways that we treat each other or how we use our time or our finances, says david. we can fall back on that culture covenant and say, hey, is that in line with who we want to be and who weve said we are and how we said that we operate?if we feel like were getting close to that point, adds constantino, we would say thats not who we are. we dont do this. so maybe we should take a break now and sleep on it.heres the full list they came up with:we value vulnerability. its okay to express the full range of emotions.we help each other laugh at least once a day. and we help each other cryif it seems were bottling something upas needed.we acknowledge that personal growth means change, and we never want to stop getting to know each other.we want to serve others. we pour into our relationship so that we have the energy to pour out.we yield to each other. no one gets the final say all the time.we value time, touch, and talk: the three ts that are the magic recipe for creating intimacy.we do not shout or curse at each other. if we get close to doing either, we take a break, make amends, and start over.we are a team, so we always take each others side and always have each others back.we show physical affection. we kiss every time we leave and greet each other because even small expressions of love are a reminder of our exclusive and special form of kinship.take a reality checkthe men say its important couples are open with each other when discussing their covenants. talk about the culture of your relationship. what are the things you like about it? what are the things you wish to change?talking about these things will help you create a list of shared values you both agree to, according to the couple.the first step, says constantino, is to be truthful.take a hard look at reality and say who are we as individuals? how do we function? how do we work as a couple? he says.according to david, its important to map out what works best for your relationship, how you and your partner operate, how you navigate conflict, and how you spend your money and your time.all of those things can vary greatly from couple to couple, david says, and theres not a right way to do it.allow your covenant to evolvethe couple say their covenant is a living document that they can change and add to as their relationship grows. they keep it in a shared google document so they can both access it easily, but also plan to frame it and hang it on their living room wall.its just keeping those conversations about who we are and who we want to be, where are we going, at the center, says constantino. i think thats the most value we found in it.for david, the culture covenant is a way to do a regular checkup on our relationship just in the same way we have regular physicals for our bodies.we can regularly take a look at our culture covenant and say, hey, is this consistent with how were living life right now? do we feel like were on track with the values that we set for our relationship, or do we feel like were drifting?if they feel like they are drifting, he says, they can always make adjustments.a culture covenant isnt a document to force anyone into a particular way of living, explains david, but its simply a way to be consistently intentional about how you do a relationship.how to create a culture covenantdefine the culture of your relationship: ask yourselves what you like and what you want to change. focus on practical and aspirational values, especially values that will help you navigate conflict.be real: be honest and open about who you are both as individuals and as a couple, and about what you want.be flexible: your covenant should evolve alongside your relationship as you grow together. you can keep it in a google document that you both have access to. you can also frame it and hang it in your home where it can serve as a daily reminder of those values.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when any of the people i follow on instagram or facebook share a \"sweaty selfie\" or \"swealfie\", aka, a post-workout pic of themselves drenched in sweat after a long run or crossfit session, im quick to absentmindedly like, just as i do any other selfie. but personally, the idea of taking, let alone sharing, a swealfie has always been mortifying to me. i look my worst during and after a tough workout, why would i want anyone to see me like that? plus, it seems like more of a humble brag  or even outright brag  than anything else.im no \"sports illustrated\" swimsuit model, but im naturally slender and lucky enough to work out at what many would call a fancy gym. the last thing i want to do is add to societys toxic promotion of thinness and pricey fitness plans as a gold standard of health and self-care simply by posting a pic of myself in a sports bra outside my west hollywood gym.but i think ive been missing the point about swealfies. at their best, swealfies dont have to hinge on superficial self- or lifestyle promotion (although theres plenty of that out there); instead they can embrace authenticity, build motivation and accountability  and help grow your more health-focused community on social media.swealfies done right can help you announce (and reach) your goalswealfies are becoming more common than not, and i think theres great value in them when done the right way, says janine delaney, a psychologist and fitness expert. i think they serve a purpose in a few ways. first, when youre setting any sort of fitness goal, its easy to fall off the wagon. i appreciate swealfies that announce a goal because it tells me that person is serious about getting in shape and in holding themselves accountable.this swealfie would typically come with a caption detailing your goal  the more narrative, the better, delaney notes, because people want to hear your authentic story.if you say, my goal is that by this time next month ill have lost five pounds, it helps you stay accountable because now youve told the world about it, delaney says. ive seen this done extremely tastefully and i respect people who do this.track your fitness journey through swealfiesanother positive aspect of swealfies, is their ability to help you archive your progress so that you can create a timeline of your fitness journey.i have a 12-week training program on fitplan and i met one woman in l.a with three kids who went through the plan and completely changed her body, says delaney. she documented her journey and posted swealfies all the time. if youre doing that and saying, today i did this workout and i feel it in my abs, or look at this improvement in my shoulders you can keep referring back to that content to keep progressing and push yourself to the next level.of course, you dont have to post these kinds of selfies to reap the benefits. if youre uncomfortable sharing your photos on social media, keep them on your phones camera roll as a visual reminder of how far youve come.this is for all body types, all ages: empower yourselfconnie omari, a licensed professional counselor, clinician and owner of tech talk therapy, often recommends swealfies for her clients dealing with trauma, depression and/or anxiety.exercise helps us release endorphins and feel better about ourselves, omari says. swealfies are helpful because they allow you to document the evidence. theres nothing quite like being able to push your body beyond what it would normally do. commemorate that moment, and preserve it.additionally, omari notes, a chief hallmark of self-efficacy is picturing yourself doing the thing you want to do, so why not take it to the next step and literally take a picture of yourself doing it?swealfies should have nothing to do with body shaming or suggesting that others should be doing what youre doing to be healthy, omari adds. its actually a way of empowering people by letting them know that youre working hard, and a way of having a positive influence.working out isnt always pretty  and if i can do it, you can toochristine parizo, a fitness blogger who is devoted to running and crossfit finds that her swealfies are some of her most-liked photos across her some 1400 instagram followers. but thats not why she posts them.i do it for one reason: because working out isnt always pretty, parizo says. sometimes youre drenched in sweat. youve put in the work, especially after a run, and you want to show it off. hard work means you sweat, and i like to show that i worked hard.\"parizos swealfies also help promote the idea that if i can do crossfit, anyone can, she says. im a 40-year-old mom with stretch marks and loose skin who is 51 and doesnt weigh much. i didnt come into this super strong. i like to contribute the motivational message that your age and size dont matter. i also want to inspire other mothers to be proud of who they are and what theyre doing.share when you fall off the wagon, tooif you do fall off the fitness wagon, feel free to share about it with a selfie. more often than not youll find your friends cheering you on.when you post a selfie, dont feel like it has to be centered on something youve succeeded at, delaney adds. say i fell off the wagon today on my diet. that shows people that youre real, and youll be amazed at how many good people will lift you up. it really helps motivate you and even if you dont meet these people, you develop strong supportive relationships. so many people [i interact with on social media] i have never actually met, but we message each other and comment on one anothers progress. it just makes you feel better and it is teamwork. selfies should be about supporting one another instead of just trying to gain popularity.try these fitness routines10 core exercises that are better for your back (and body) than crunches5 exercises you can perform anywhere, anytimea 10-minute cardio workout you can do at home5 exercises that will strengthen your back and reduce pain8 exercises trainers never do (and what to do instead)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if youve ever gotten a promotion at work, you know how good it feels to be recognized for your all your efforts. a chorus of congratulations from your boss and colleagues can be incredibly inspiring. but as much as that experience can be uplifting, the opposite is true for a demotion at work. it can quickly depress and demoralize. and it happens much more often than people may think.nearly half of all human resources managers reported seeing employee demotions at their company, and more than 1 in 10 workers have been demoted at some point in their career, according to a new survey by staffing firm officeteam. while a few of the demotions were voluntary or attributable to company restructuring, 39 percent were due to poor performance, and 38 percent were due to an employee who failed to meet expectations following a promotion.more than 1 in 10 workers have been demoted at some point in their career.in todays market, companies are more likely to demote a poor performer than they are to fire a poor performer, explains officeteam district president brandi britton. rather than firing someone, thus losing the knowledge base that they have, companies may prefer to keep the employee and just demote them to a role where theyre more likely to be successful. although the concept of taking a step back in your career may sound daunting, there are ways to both handle a demotion with grace and regain your upward trajectory. here are the steps.read the tea leavesdemotions generally dont come out of the blue. there are often signs that your performance is not up to par, britton explains. it could be that you failed to meet targets or quotas, that you had a breakdown in communication with your supervisor, or perhaps you received a formal warning. pay attention to those signals  even if what youre hearing makes you feel demoralized.it may be that on the day youre demoted, youll need to take some time to reflect on your next move  dont feel pressure to have a lengthy discussion with your boss right then and there, explains morag barrett, partner at lead star, an international leadership and executive development firm. but eventually youll need to find out where you were lacking in your performance, so look to schedule a follow-up meeting where you can go in with a list of prepared questions.make the choiceif you are demoted, you essentially have three choices, barrett says. you can choose to stay at the company and re-dedicate yourself to thriving in your role, you can stay at the company and become bitter and complain about how unfair it was that you were demoted, or you can leave the company and take your demotion as a signal that the organization wasnt a good fit for you, she says. but if you opt to stay and complain, your supervisors and colleagues will eventually start to view you as a toxic influence, and you may find yourself dismissed, she cautions. the goal is that you handle it as gracefully as possible. you have to make a conscious choice to stay or go, but you cant be half in and half out.if you decide to stay in your new (or old) position, youll want to discuss what steps you can take to improve, britton says. ask what you need to do better. create a path of action items that you need to accomplish, she explains. most importantly, dont perceive this as a bad thing that means your career is over  some people have been promoted prematurely in this economy and they just need more development.how to work your way backrather than clamoring to try and get your old role back as quickly as possible (which could anger your manager), talk to him or her about what you can do to earn back their trust. in other words, acknowledge your mistakes and the fact that you have things to work on before you can get back to where you were, britton says.if your manager offers specific feedback on skills that youre lacking, listen closely to the critique, barrett suggests. if youre told that you need a skill you know you already possess, then figure out a way to better showcase that skill. or, if youre told you need to gain a skill that you dont have, figure out how to acquire it. if a training plan isnt available in your role, then look to create one for yourself, britton advises. oftentimes people are afraid to ask questions or admit that they need support, but you should never be afraid to admit what you dont know. people respect leaders who dont know everything, she says.one surprising thing about demotions is that they often follow on the heels of a promotion.setting yourself up for successone surprising thing about demotions is that they often follow on the heels of a promotion. employees who failed to live up to expectations of a new role sometimes find themselves right back where they started. with that in mind, its important to be especially vigilant about your performance following a title change, barrett says. first, go out for a drink and celebrate, then sit down and ask yourself, how do i succeed? dont try to run before you can walk. listen, ask questions and find out whats working and whats not in your department before you start making changes.good communication with your manager  and really everyone upstream and downstream from you in the organization  is key, she says. after all, how will you know youre on target if you arent communicating about what good performance really looks like? never be afraid to ask for more guidance, britton says. many people think ill just wait to talk to my manager until they check in with me, but you should schedule regular meetings with your manager to discuss progress and performance. in other words, the more often you can show that youre being proactive and eager to learn, the better.with kathryn tuggletake your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

fresh food gets all the love, but canned food is worthy of praise, too. the canning process, which has been used to preserve food for centuries, keeps food safe and nutritious until consumed, which not only cuts back on food waste, but also means your pantry holds a treasure of quick meal solutions. i asked the nations top food and nutrition pros for their favorite canned goods, but before you get a sneak peek into their pantries, here are a few pointers for selecting the most nutritious canned foods.choose lower sugar and lower sodium versions. ideally, youre looking for foods with no added sugar or salt, but its okay if canned soup has a little of each.look for bpa-free can linings. though cans are made with steel, their linings are often made with a substance that contains bpa, an industrial chemical thats thought to be an obesogenic (yep, what it sounds like). though the fda deems this substance safe for now, other health groups raise red flags. even private label brands offer bpa-free can linings so it wont be hard to avoid this potentially harmful substance.steer clear of canned foods with artificial preservatives and ingredients. this isnt hard to do, since canning is a food preservation technique.canned pumpkinthough canned pumpkin might seem like a seasonal item, dietitians turn to it year-round. i stock my pantry with canned organic pumpkin throughout the year to incorporate into smoothies, treats and even savory dishes, like pumpkin hummus and soup, says cynthia sass, rd, a nyc- and la-based performance nutritionist.sass makes this one of her top canned choices because its loaded with nutrition. one half cup of pumpkin puree packs nearly 400 percent of the daily recommended target for vitamin a. this key nutrient and antioxidant supports immunity, lung, eye and skin health, and has been shown to protect against cognitive decline. the fiber in pumpkin supports digestive health and bowel regularity, boosts fullness and helps control blood sugar and insulin regulation, which makes pumpkin a great pre-exercise fuel. pumpkin also supplies bone boosting vitamin k, immune-supporting vitamin c, and muscle- assisting potassium. its a powerhouse pantry staple! she explains.the fiber in pumpkin supports digestive health and bowel regularity, boosts fullness and helps control blood sugar and insulin regulation, which makes pumpkin a great pre-exercise fuel.sara haas, rdn, ldn, author and culinary nutritionist based in chicago, illinois is another pumpkin lover. beyond its obvious uses for quick breads, pancakes and other baked goods, i love to use it an as an earthy addition and binder in veggie-based burgers. its also delicious when cooked low and slow with broth and seasonal aromatics, and finished with a (tiny) touch of cream as a flavorful sauce for whole grain pasta.beansif you can open a can, you can punch up the protein and fiber in salads, pasta dishes, soups, and even sweets using canned beans. tamara duker freuman, nyc-based dietitian and author of \"the bloated belly whisperer\" says theyre her hands-down favorite. canned beans form the basis of the three easiest, fastest and cheapest weeknight family meals in my repertoire. canned black beans doctored up with some cumin and oregano are the basis of a mexican-style bowl i serve with brown rice or quinoa, avocado and other toppings; canned cannellini beans are the star ingredient of a quick white chili i make with ground turkey, onions and garlic; and i mix canned chickpeas with a jar of indian-style simmer sauce or pre-mixed spice blend for a quick south asian curry, served with rice, plain yogurt and a cilantro garnish.brooklyn, ny-based nutrition and wellness expert and author of \"eating in color,\" frances largeman-roth, rdn is also on board with canned beans. she keeps her kitchen stocked with a few cans of black beans. i use them for everything from weekend quesadillas to my bison and black bean chili. my oldest daughter doesnt eat much meat, but she loves black beans, so i like incorporating them into flexitarian meals for her. black beans, like other pulses, are such a wonderful source of fiber and plant-based protein, with 7 grams each per 1/2 cup serving. one serving also contains 15 percent of your daily requirement for iron, which makes black beans an especially great ingredient for women and teens, she notes.keri gans, rdn, nyc-based nutritionist and author, \"the small change diet,\" relies on canned beans to make a home-cooked meal without much work. one of my favorite canned foods is legumes, especially black beans and cannellini beans, since i never can be bothered with the time it takes to cook them from scratch. she sauts cooked bow tie pasta in olive oil with garlic, spinach, cannellini beans, and parmesan cheese for a fiber- and protein-packed meal thats easy to make and clean up!while a delicious addition to meals, canned chickpeas also make a great snack, says bonnie taub-dix, rdn, author of \"read it before you eat it  taking you from label to table.\" after rinsing and draining, just season and roast them. taub-dix points out that like other beans, they fit into many different food groups. beans provide quality, slow-burning carbs, protein, and similar to veggies, many vitamins, minerals and antioxidants.in fact, bean-eaters have a lot going for them! one study found that chickpea and hummus eaters consumed higher levels of an array of nutrients, including fiber, folate, magnesiumand potassium. eating beans is also linked with slimmer waistlines and a healthier weight. and a 10-year study found that plant-based diets that include beans, fruits, veggies, and whole grains, protected against diabetes  lowering the odds of developing the disease by 40 percent.coconut milknutritionally speaking, coconut milk is rich in medium chain triglycerides, giving it a potentially healthier profile than many other foods high in saturated fats, explains jackie newgent, rdn, brooklyn, new york-based culinary nutritionist and author of \"the all-natural diabetes cookbook.\" im a huge fan of using a just-the-right amount of canned organic coconut milk for providing plant-based lusciousness to both savory and sweet dishes. i enjoy using it to create a creamier, tastier side-dish, like a sticky coconut rice or an aromatic coconut cauliflower couscous or as a base for curry sauce. for an occasional dessert, i love whirling up vegan whipped cream using the solid chilled coconut cream from the top of the coconut milk  or just from a can of coconut cream itself.canned fishjessica levinson, rdn, cdn, new york-based culinary nutrition expert and author of \"52-week meal planner\" keeps canned fish in her pantry at all times. and for good reason. researched benefits of fish and seafood, especially fatty fish rich in omega-3 fatty acids, include reduced risk of heart disease and improved brain development and function, she says.canned fish is a quick and easy option, especially for those who shy away from cooking raw fish. tuna and salmon can be used to make sandwiches or to top a large green salad for lunch, added to pasta for dinner or transformed into fish cakes, she says. though canned salmon and tuna are obvious choices, levinson also suggests trying canned sardines and anchovies on salads or on crostini for a little snack.black olivesblack olives are a flavorful addition to salads, omelets and tacos, but joan salge blake, edd, rdn, author of \"nutrition &amp; you\" and clinical associate professor at boston university suggests snacking on them, too. she creates a mini cheese plate with  cup of olives, an ounce of cheese, and few nuts. the combo is deliciously rich in vitamin e, calcium and fiber  three nutrients many folks are falling short of, she says.canned tomatoesnutrition expert and cleverful living creator, holley grainger, ms, rd, swears by canned diced tomatoes. whether im adding a can to chili, using it in pasta sauce, making a quick skillet shakshuka or topping meatloaf, canned diced tomatoes are a simple way to boost the nutrition of my favorite recipes regardless of the season.sure, canned tomatoes help home cooks create a number of delicious meals, but they also happen to be incredibly nutritious as well. according to grainger, canned tomatoes are an excellent source of the antioxidant lycopene and theyre bursting with a variety of nutrients such as vitamin c, fiber, iron and potassium. as with all canned goods, choose \"no added salt\" or \"low sodium\" versions.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

there are three types of people; touchy-feely people who always hug you hello, special occasional huggers and those who find displays of affection uncomfortable. interestingly enough, your touchy-feely friends may also be happier and healthier, as recent research is beginning to identify the hug as a viable mental and physical health boost.hugs may temper the stress of conflict  even before it startshow? for starters, a recent study published in plos one investigated whether the effects of a good hug can soothe you throughout the day  even if you face conflict afterward. researchers found those who were hugged were less affected by conflict exposure, or interpersonal conflict, than those who werent hugged. the gender of the huggers didnt matter, and neither did the context of the relationship (romantic, familial or platonic).one of the lead authors of the study, michael murphy, ph.d., post-doctoral research associate at the laboratory for the study of stress, immunity, and disease in the department of psychology at carnegie mellon university, says its because touch deactivates the part of the brain that responds to threats, and in turn fewer hormones are released to signal a stress response, and your cardiovascular system experiences less stress.in other words, its linked to less of a fight-or-flight response to stressful situations, murphy explains, adding that theorists believe interpersonal touch can modulate oxytocin (a feel-good hormone also known as the cuddle chemical) and the endogenous opioid system (neurons in the brain that can produce soothing chemicals), both of which can boost health. feeling safer and cared for, in turn, can make us less sensitive to physical pain and less reactive when faced with potentially threatening experiences, especially socially threatening experiences, he says.hugs may boost your immune systemthe notion that a hug can ease symptoms of the common cold might seem completely absurd  but research suggests otherwise. another study from murphys colleagues at carnegie mellon examined how stress and social support impacts immunity and susceptibility to infectious disease. participants were exposed to a common cold virus and were then monitored in quarantine to assess signs of illness. the study found that those who felt socially supported and were hugged more often also experienced less-severe signs of illness.feeling threatened and stressed can tune our immune system to act more aggressively than necessary for longer periods of time than are necessary, says murphy. an over-aggressive immune system can lead to damage to bodily systems, increasing our risk for a variety of illnesses. however, to the extent that hugs make us feel safer and more cared for, they can buffer against experiences that might otherwise threaten us, protecting us from mounting an over-aggressive immune response.hugs and affection at a young age can keep children healthier in the long runmeanwhile, another study found parental affection as an indicator of a childs future health. childhood adversity increases risk for mental and physical health problems in adulthood, explains study author judith e. carroll, ph.d., assistant professor of psychiatry at ucla. what does this have to do with hugging? she told us, in her study, individuals who reported emotional and physical abuse in childhood, and limited love and affection from a parent, were most at risk for health issues later in life. oddly enough, if an individual reported abuse but also received love and affection from a parental figure during childhood, it somehow mitigated the impact of abuse on their health.our findings highlight the extent to which these early social relationships are associated with biological risk across nearly all of the bodys major regulatory systems, suggesting that there may be a way to reduce the impact abuse has, at least in terms of physical health, carroll told us. among the list of toxic stressors, childhood abuse is considered particularly harmful. sadly, current estimates suggest as much as 1 in 4 children will experience some form of abuse and/or neglect. carroll says she hopes her findings will encourage public policy support for early interventions. if we intervene early by educating and training caregivers in how to provide a loving and nurturing environment, we may also improve the long-term health trajectories for those kids.on the flip side of the age equation, a swedish study of 172 nursing home residents found residents who received hugs and physical touch, connected with friends and visitors, and were otherwise active socially, had a tendency to thrive more than less social residents.hugs may good for your heart in more ways than onelike murphy mentioned earlier, hugs seem to keep the cardiovascular system from being stressed. a study, from the university of north carolina, recruited 59 women ages 20-49 who had been living with a spouse or monogamous partner for at least six months. at first, the women were asked to sit right by their partners and recall a time they felt particularly close for a few minutes, watch a romantic video for a few minutes, talk for another couple of minutes and end with a 20-second hug. after all that, the women were separated from their partners and required to prepare and record a speech about something that made them angry or stressed out. their findings? the hug group had lower blood pressure and heart rates during the stressful task. and the women who said they got more hugs from their partners generally had higher oxytocin levels at all phases of testing, leaving the researchers to conclude that oxytocin may be a link between hugging and lower blood pressure.so, the next time one of your friends or family is stressed, go on ahead and offer them a hug. the need to belong  and engaging in behaviors that affect our sense of belonging  is part of our nature as humans, says murphy.his research has even personally impacted how murphy offers support to his nearest and dearest. in my close relationships, when someone is distressed, i am far more likely to offer a hug than i used to be, says murphy. in fact, hugging is now my typical go-to response.more from betterwhat happens to your brain when you go on a dietthis is your brain on prayer and meditationsmiling can trick your brain into happiness  and boost your healthwine tasting can work the brain more than math, according to neurosciencewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

\"making a murder.\" \"the jinx.\" \"disappeared.\" \"the keepers.\" \"s-town.\" \"serial.\" the list of true crime stories is growing, along with the genres popularity. the crimes are the type that send shivers down your spine and tend to keep you up at night.so why do we keep watching?its kind of like our fascination with great white sharks and why we cant turn away from hearing about stories from natural disasters, explains scott bonn, phd, a criminology expert and author of \"why we love serial killers: the curious appeal of the worlds most savage murderers.\"the shark, the record-breaking earthquake and the serial killer who dismembers his victims and eats them are all very rare, exotic and deadly.serial killers [often the topic of true crime shows] are sort of the worst of the worst, he says. the shark, the record-breaking earthquake and the serial killer who dismembers his victims and eats them are all very rare, exotic and deadly, bonn says. theres this sort of fascination with things that are larger than life.but particularly when it comes to these heinous crimes, bonn and others have a few theories on why we get so captivated.theres the adrenaline factorperhaps the most straightforward explanation of why we watch and continue watching true crime is the adrenaline factor. its a way to experience the fear and rush that thrill-seekers crave  from the safety and comfort of our couch (where we ourselves arent in any real, physical danger).thats why the stories tend to be formulaic to a certain extent, bonn says. they initially take you into the forest and scare the hell out of you, but then by the end of it they bring you back out of the forest and youre safe.that sense of closure  the mystery getting solved, the killer getting caught  is important, he adds. bonn compares it to a roller coaster ride. we keep riding because we want that big dip that knocks the wind out of us (the adrenaline release). but we know were going to be safe and secure again when the ride ends.bonn says he isnt aware of any specific studies that have measured hormone levels in true crime fans when they watch such shows. but he suspects the adrenaline factor is likely in play based on dozens of interviews he conducted while researching his book with self-defined true crime fans who say the thrill is why they tune in to such programs again and again.they absolutely love the thrill of true crime, he says.(its worth noting that research has neither proven nor disproven adrenaline rushes are addictive, but some evidence does suggest that when thrill seekers brains are stimulated like they might be during a rush, parts of the brain known to be linked to the addiction cycle are in fact more active compared to people who were not thrill seekers, according to mri scans.)we want to make sense of the senselesstheres also the need to understand the perpetrator, and make sense of what might make someone do the horrendous things that serial kills do.we all go about our days under the pretext that we and the people around us will follow certain rules. we dont hurt each other. we dont enter peoples homes without their permission. when people break those rules, we want an explanation. what warped that individuals perception of right and wrong? and could something come along that might similarly warp our perception of right and wrong?to simply reduce it and say, oh theyre just pure evil misses so much of it, bonn explains. these individuals are human beings and theres always a why behind their motivations, needs, and desires, he says.it begs the question: what might i be capable of under such circumstances?this understanding of criminal behavior is rooted in the functionalism theory in sociology that everyone in society  even the worst among us  have a purpose, bonn says. deviants and criminals set the outer boundaries of what is acceptable and what is not.were fascinated by testing and exploring these boundaries of human nature, bonn says. and in part because doing so forces us to look at ourselves, too.it begs the question: what might i be capable of under such circumstances? bonn says.it may feed an evolutionary survival instinctanother theory is that true crime stories give us information we (potentially subconsciously) register as something that may at some point help us survive (on the off-chance a serial murderer shows up at our front door).a 2010 study published in the journal social psychological and personality science investigated our motivations for seeking out true crime stories (and is one of the few peer-reviewed studies to have done so).the data showed that women were more likely to be drawn to true crime stories than men (when given the choice between different genres). and another set of experiments suggested that women were more likely to choose a true crime story than men when they expected to learn something that might help protect them if they found themselves in a perilous situation, when they expected to learn something about why the killer committed the crime, and when the victim of the crime was female.together the research suggest women are choosing these stories if and when they might learn something that would help them survive if they were ever in a similar situation, explains study co-author amanda vicary, phd, an associate professor of psychology at illinois wesleyan university.if someone knows what drives someone to kill and knows how to escape if kidnapped, obviously their chances of avoiding or surviving a crime are much higher, she says. (interestingly, research shows that men are actually more likely to be victims of a crime than women, but that women do tend to have more fear that they will be a victim of a crime than men do.)these motivations are likely subconscious ones, vicary adds. if you asked most women why they like true crime, they probably wouldnt list these reasons, she says. but their innate fear and desire for survival may be driving their interest in crime.watching true crime stories can be catharticanother theory of his (based on the sociological research hes done interviewing true crime fans) is that the genre provides an emotional catharsis for fans.we get to experience fear without ever really being in danger. wrongs are righted. its a morality play, bonn says. we cant have that in real life. real life is more complex and uncertain.more from betteryour brain on a dietsmiling can trick your brain into happiness (and boost your health)your brain on prayer and meditationthe science behind being hangrywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

as a personal finance writer, people are often surprised to hear that im not a super-strict budgeter. i also feel no shame in applying for an income tax filing extension, and when it comes to investing? id much rather leave the whole thing up to a computer program rather than spend precious hours painstakingly researching and selecting mutual funds myself.and the reasoning behind all of this? im lazy. just as with household chores and regular dentist visits, i dont want to spend more time thinking about my money than i absolutely have to. i want to feel confident that im setting myself up for a bright financial future, of course. but personally, i think part of being good with money is knowing when and how to use your bad habits to your own advantage. for me, my laziness is nothing less than a financial virtue.its all about setting yourself up to succeed. i definitely think laziness can be a virtue if you put the right systems in place, says certified financial educator and financial coach maggie germano. being lazy, forgetful or avoidant when it comes to your money doesnt mean youre doomed to miss payments or never save.of course, im not advocating to never check your bank account balance or just leave your credit card debt alone in the hopes that itll eventually just disappear  when it comes to your money, a laissez-faire attitude can often be a virtue, but ignorance never is. in order to make laziness work to your financial advantage, you have to be smart about it. here are a few ways to do just that:automate, automate, automateyouve probably heard the term pay yourself first, but what does it really mean? for me, its simply the idea that the money from my paycheck needs to go towards my goals first, before i spend a penny on anything else for the month. rather than spending what i want and save whats leftover, i save a set amount first and spend whats leftover. if youre lazy like me, theres one super-simple way to do this: automate. if you know you dont like to take financial action, automation is your friend, germano explains. in order to save money or grow your wealth, you can use direct deposit or auto-deductions. set it and forget it through your paycheck in order to contribute to retirement or build up your other savings.you can automate everything from your house down payment or vacation savings to your retirement account. there are also many robo-advisors and apps that you can use to save or invest your money in the stock market, says germano. you can either use a round-up function, or set up a monthly contribution. this way, youre saving and/or investing without even needing to think about it. win-win!germano also advocates for setting up auto-pay for your credit card and other bill payments. that way, you never risk missing a payment and dinging your credit score  or racking up even more debt in the form of interest.make more from compound interestas discussed, automating your accounts is a great way to make sure youre investing in the first place. but laziness can be a boone to your investment strategy even beyond that.how, exactly? its a tale as old as time: through the power of compound interest.the ultimate lazy investing secret is compounding your wealth, says professor alexander lowry, director of the master of science program in financial analysis at gordon college. compound interest is the eighth wonder of the world. compounding is the safe road, the sure road, and fortunately, anybody can do it. to compound successfully, though, you need time. compounding only works through time.so how do you make compounding work to your advantage? invest your money, and then leave it alone  dont sell off your assets at the first sign of a dip in the market. and while its super important to build up that emergency fund, dont think that only having cash is going to carry you through your twilight years comfortably.you cant compound holding only/mostly cash, lowry explains. cash is a wonderful asset to hold during times of crisis. its also great for a short-term goal, such as keeping money safe for a house down payment to be made within a couple years. but cash is not a long-term investing strategy.of course, you will want to continue contributing to your retirement account and other long-term investing accounts throughout your working years. but once you make those contributions, do your best to leave them alone and let years of interest-building work in your favor.the one caveat to financial lazinessthere are plenty of other ways to make laziness work to your financial benefit, too. for example, if you want to keep an eye on your credit score but dont want to dedicate all that much time to doing so, set up credit monitoring. most major credit bureaus offer these programs, either for free or a small monthly payment. many banks and budgeting apps (like mint) also offer free credit score updates on a regular basis so you can stay on top of your financial health without really having to think about it.but theres a big caveat to financial laziness that i would be remiss not to highlight: to get a big payoff later, you must put in a little bit of effort at the beginning. for example, automating your savings wont work if you dont leave yourself enough to cover your basic necessities and therefore end up withdrawing everything you saved anyway. you need to take the time to track your spending, come up with a reasonable budgeting plan, then decide on an amount you can afford to part with each month.however, that little bit of leg work will be worth it. after youve put the right systems for your financial situation in place, getting where you want to be wont feel so unattainable.more from betterhow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayssmart money moves to make now to improve your finances in 2019want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

theres only two and a half months left in 2018. which means that many of us likely have a health goal thats been collecting dust on our resolutions list. how many of you rung in the new year with a renewed commitment to lose weight, only to throw in the towel until 2019? be honest.if this cycle has occurred more times than youd like to admit, youre not alone. setting a weight-loss goal is easy to do, but following through on it is a different story. which is why losing weight is consistently one of the most popular resolutions, but few of us actually accomplish it. in fact, one survey found that at the end of the first week of january, 30 percent of people have already called it quits.what may come as some consolation is that even the fittest among us know the struggle is real: many know me from social media as the jump rope queen and fitness trainer who is always smiling while coming up with difficult and creative workouts. what they may not know is that like everyone else, i too struggle with finding ways to keep my motivation up when it comes to diet and exercise, says janine delaney, psychologist and fitness expert whose social media platform has amassed almost 2 million followers. as a full-time psychologist, wellness influencer and mom of two teenage girls i have an awful lot going on. sometimes it would be easier to head for the couch with a bag of chips than plan a healthy meal and fit in a workout. still, i make it happen.how exactly? were glad you asked. the difference between those who throw in the towel and those who actually reach their goal is simple: staying motivated. its not a matter of if your motivation will wane, but when. and when it does, delaney falls back on her expertise as a psychologist to have the right structure in place to stick with it.here are her five tried-and-true strategies that she uses to stay committed to her goals  even when she encounters the inevitable dip in motivation.set smart goalssetting the right goal is the first step  and arguably the most important. setting the wrong one can set yourself up for failure before you even begin.a not-smart goal would be i want to lose weight or i want to get fit, they are very vague and general, says delaney. what we need to do when we set a goal is think about how we are going to put the action behind it. a smart goal would be i want to lose 10 pounds by june 1 so when i go to aruba on vacation i can wear a bikini.besides being specific, it comes down to personalization: the goal needs to be realistic and meaningful for you. walk yourself though this checklist to ensure that the goal you are setting for yourself is a smart one:specific: how much weight do i want to lose? a specific number.measurable: is there a way that i can track the results?attainable: is the goal realistic?relevant: is this something that i actually want to do? what will keep you intrinsically motivated is setting a goal thats meaningful to you.time-bound: when is it going to be completed? what steps happen next?plan ahead  and find your intrinsic motivation to do itit sounds simple, but theres truth to the adage: those who fail to plan, plan to fail.for busy people, [planning ahead] is the most efficient way to get done what you need to get done  whether its your job, your workout, meal planning ... its not easy and we have so many things going on. putting things down on paper clears your brain. now you dont have everything in your head; it frees up the space to focus on what you need to do. she recommends setting aside time on sunday to plan out the week ahead. planning is so important from an organization perspective, says delaney. when it comes to organizing you really need to think about whats important to you. i always tell people, dont over-schedule. you dont have to say yes to every single invitation. think about what your week is going to look like and how youre going to find time for whats important.so we all know that planning ahead is the best way to ensure we fit in workouts and eat healthy, but why then do we so often fail to do it? delaney says this is where psychology comes into play: we need to find the intrinsic motivation to plan ahead by asking ourselves, where does the value lie?everyone has something thats going to be more meaningful to them, so you have to figure out what is it thats going to drive you to actually do it. is it time saving? is it cost saving? is it the ability to make things simple [so that] you dont need to think about it? says delaney. to sit down on a sunday and think about planning takes time. how am i justifying that time? well if i add up the cost savings and the time savings throughout the week, it may have only taken me an hour on a sunday, but during the week without having to think about it, i just saved five hours. if you do the math, its worth it. youre also giving yourself back some mental space. so instead of waking up in the morning and winging it, now you have some sort of routine so you can feel more in the present and not consistently worrying about whats coming next.get your family on boardfamily and friend support is so critical to staying accountable,\" says delaney. \"people may have a sincere interest to work out and eat healthy, but [its hard if] their family is not on the same page. they buy junk food. they arent active. they sit in front of the tv instead of taking a walk. but getting your family on board with your health goals is another one of those things thats easier in theory than practice. delaney offers up three strategies she uses in her own household:show dont tell. its important as youre raising children to lead by example and hopefully as they grow up you start to influence their mindset so they become the type of people who want to do these things, says delaney. kids never like being told what to do, so i was never strong handed. now that my girls are college-aged, they make good choices on their own. what ive learned is, as my children have grown up they on their own have made these choices because they see me working out and eating healthy. what that has done is create an adult that is doing things intrinsically, because they are meaningful to them and not because someone is forcing them to.make your space exercise friendly. ive made my house health friendly. we never really use our living room and didnt have room for a home gym, so we decided to push the furniture aside and put out some weights and exercise mats, she says. suddenly, squeezing in a workout is as easy as plopping down on the couch to watch tv.re-think date night. its really hard to find time to be together. people always say date night, but its hard to get out once a week and leave the kids and do that,\" says delaney. \"so what we do is rather than date night we try to have one or two days a week where we train together in the gym. we spend time as a couple together being active and doing active things with the family. one of our favorite things to do is walk around the city, we dont take cabs, we walk the whole city, window shop and have something to eat. when it comes to exercise, have fun and dont make it feel like its a chore.practice these mini motivation-boosters once a weekhow do we keep ourselves motivated to continue to put in the work? its hard to do! if it was easy, lose weight wouldnt have a permanent spot on our new years resolution list. delaney offers up two tactics that will continuely stoke the fire:use weekly check-ins to celebrate small successes. recognizing your wins keeps you motivated, says delaney, who recommends checking in with yourself every sunday about your progress for the week  specifically what went well. \"when you did a good job, you should recognize that because that keeps you motivated, she says. then you can go back and reflect. itll remind you of your progress and of the things that you did really well; we need that. part of the sustenance of keeping with a goal is feeling good about yourself. take five minutes each sunday to complete this journaling prompt: what did i do well this week? what didnt go well this week? what can i do differently next week to improve?schedule \"cheat meals\" and gym breaks into your routine. its hard to be consistently motivated and always be on your game. give yourself a little bit of a reprieve,\" says delaney. \"mentally, its not normal to constantly be on all the time, we need to unwind and relax. by doing something thats not perfect, were allowing ourselves to revel in the moment and celebrate our success; it gives us a renewed energy to move on. to do this, delaney says to schedule one cheat meal a week, and to pick 1-2 days where you let your body rest. \"go out and have a slice of pizza and a glass of red wine. your body needs that, not just physically, but mentally. same with the gym. you dont need to work out every day. give your body that recoup time; physically and mentally it needs it. give yourself a break so you can sustain that motivation. its an allowance instead of creating the i messed up syndrome which causes you to get off track.have a slip-up plan in placebesides not having a smart goal, the second most common reason that people give up is they feel like theyre failing at it, says delaney. people are human and we make mistakes; thats normal. that being said, we should expect slip ups to occur and have strategies in place to bounce back from them (instead of letting them completely derail us):know your why: when you set a goal, write down why that goal is important to you. because when you mess up  and you will  you can go back and read what you wrote and why it was meaningful and that will make you remember why you started,\" says delaney. \"when you fail  because everyone will fail at some point  go back to the book and remember why you set the goal in the first place.forgive yourself: we beat ourselves up all the time and you cant do that because the most successful people in life take risks, and part of taking risks is failure,\" says delaney. \"i learned this through business: if you fail, you were brave enough to take the risk, so dont beat yourself up. what people need to understand is, its okay to mess up, what isnt okay is to let that ruin your motivation. get back on the wagon and regroup; think about why you messed up so you dont keep repeating the same problem.evaluate the slip up: when the slip ups occur, having a check-in process in place can help identify why it happened and prevent it from happening again. ask yourself: how did i slip up? (i ate a bunch of unhealthy snacks at the office.) how does that make me feel? (frustrated; like i disappointed my kids.) what can i change moving forward so it doesnt repeat itself? (pack snacks ahead of time so that im not tempted by candy when i have a stressful day.) this process will help you understand why you slipped up: maybe its because you were stressed out; if you find it to be a constant pattern that youre always messing up on your diet because youre stressed, then you need to take action on that, says delaney. when you start to feel stressed out, you can go take a hot bath or read a book; whatever you need to do. and you wont have as many slips ups because youve identified the source of the problem.at the end of the day, successfully achieving a health goal  whether it be to lose weight, tone up or feel more energized  all comes down to identifying a goal that is meaningful to you as an individual, says delaney. \"its different for everybody. its about creating goals based on what is important to you and really understanding yourself so that you can continue to work towards them.weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)these two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

cryptocurrencies are incredibly popular right now  so much so that many people are investing a lot of money into them without knowing exactly what theyre doing.so whenever anyone asks me if investing in bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency is a good idea, i just have one question for them: what does the rest of your portfolio look like?thats because if you jump into investing in crypto without having a solid foundation for your personal finances, youre going to have a bad time.in fact, there are five areas that you should focus on first before jumping into cryptocurrencies:paying off your debtmaxing out 401k matchcontributing to a roth iracreating an emergency fundautomating your personal financelets take a look at each area now, and break down how you can approach it.get out of debtdebt is the biggest barrier to a better financial future. 80 percent of americans are straddled with debt in some form or another.thats why eliminating your debt fast should be your first priority  and there are a number of ways you can do it.first, you can pay the minimum on all of your debt, but pay more on the loan with the highest apr since its costing you more each month. youll end up saving more money if youre able to get rid of it first.you can also utilize the snowball method of getting out of debt. this works by paying the minimum on all your debt, but paying more toward the loan with the lowest balance first. this allows you to pay off debt more quickly.this isnt the most efficient way of getting rid of debt  but it offers a huge psychological reward to see a debt being paid off.401k: free money from your joba 401k is a fantastic investment account offered by most companies to their employees. it works by investing your pre-tax income as well as a 1:1 match from your company.this means youll be able to invest even more money into a 401k than you would a typical investment account.lets say your company offers a 5 percent match and your income is $100,000 a year. if you invest 5 percent of your salary ($5,000) into the account, your company will match you that exact amount. of course, you can always invest beyond the match. as of 2018, the contribution limit for a 401k is $18,500.when you invest in a 401k, your money is managed by a professional investment company. they will likely offer you a variety of investment options to choose from based on your age and risk tolerance.once you leave your job, you can roll your money into a traditional ira, where itll continue to grow if you invest it.remember: this is pre-tax. you will be taxed on the money when you withdraw it at retirement age, which is 59  years old.roth ira: the most powerful investment vehicleif you want to invest your after-tax income and not be taxed when you retire, youll also want to invest in a roth ira.this means you can take the paycheck you receive each month and invest a portion of it into stocks, bonds, or other assets, and pay no taxes when you withdraw it at retirement age.as of 2018, the contribution limit for a roth ira is $5,500 if youre younger than 50 years old and $6,500 if youre older. so you wont be able to invest as much as you could in a 401k  but with compounding, youll still make a lot of money.also unlike a 401k, youll have to open up the roth ira yourself. luckily, doing so is simple. you just have to find a good brokerage and open an account. a few i suggest are charles schwab, vanguard and e*trade. once you open an account, youll have to choose your own investment options.create an emergency fundyour emergency fund acts as a financial parachute during the worst-case scenario. if you ever lose your job, the economy tanks or you need medical treatment, an emergency fund can help support you and your family during those trying times.a good rule of thumb for creating your emergency fund is having three to six months of living expenses put away. this is enough money for things like your rent, mortgage, car payments, bills and groceries.remember: youre probably going to have to make some sacrifices while you live off of your emergency fund  especially if you experienced a loss of income.this means youll have to stop getting uber rides, cancel your netflix subscription and get rid of your gym membership.however, you can factor all of those things into your emergency fund savings goals. that way you dont have to sacrifice your lifestyle during the down times.and theres one method i suggest for creating your emergency fund thatll help you save for it painlessly:automate your personal financesautomating your personal finances is a better alternative to traditional budgeting.heres how it works: when you receive your paycheck at the beginning of the month, your money is immediately sent to where it needs to go through automatic systems that youve already set up.heres where your money could go:50 percent - 60 percent to fixed costs: this includes things like utilities, rent, internet, and debt.10 percent to investments: this includes your roth ira and 401k plan.5 percent -10 percent to savings: this is money that goes towards things like vacations, weddings, home down payments and unexpected expenses.20 percent - 35 percent to guilt-free spending: fun money! spend this on anything you want from nice dinners to movies.once you automate your system, you only have to spend one hour each month to make sure everythings in order. the best part: you no longer have to skip your morning lattes or lunch at your favorite deli to save money.what next?if youve gotten this far, congrats! youre ahead of 99 percent of your peers. now you can begin to put your money in alternative investments like stocks that interest you or cryptocurrency, using 5 percent of your income. its your money. youve earned it.once you get your financial foundation in place, you can start investing in things like bitcoin and smile knowing youre well on your way to living a rich life.for more tips on investing, check out ramit sethis i will teach you to be rich, where hes helped millions of people with their personal finance and development.more from bettera guide to buying your first homehow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayssmart money moves to make now to improve your finances in 2019want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

do you remember when you were indoctrinated into the cult of costco? i do. friends were visiting from out of town last summer and the topic of the great, fresh seafood available there came up. they began to rave, heaping praise on the warehouse club (a little excessively, i thought). and they couldnt stop at just telling us how amazing it was, they had to show us. so we piled in the car and drove to costco  and left with our very own membership card, singing praises to all who would hear.now im a member, for life, probably, but still havent lost that feeling of awe and bewilderment that strikes when you enter the mammoth, brightly lit space. i still get the thrill of the deal, but also wonder if its all such a good value, and if im doing it right. to find out some pro-level tips i asked a couple of experts. joanie demer from the krazy coupon lady and kyle james of rather-be-shopping.com shared their best costco intel with nbc news better.no costco card? theres a loophole for thatthink you need a membership card to shop at costco? theres a way around that. a costco cash card gets you in the door and through checkout, demer said. its a huge loophole. the reason they allow it is theyre convinced once youre in the door youll be hooked. (i can vouch for that.)so, a friend or family member who is a costco member can buy you a costco cash card (either in the warehouse or online)  with a value up to $1,000, james said. then you can pay them back and get in costco and use the cash card just like you would a membership card. this is also a great option for college students who dont necessarily need to buy a lot of stuff in bulk as a cash card still provides a way to buy food, gas and school supplies.the card is also a way to be disciplined, demer added. you can leave your cash in the car and have a built-in limit. this way you know, im not going to leave with those reindeer lights.know these possible pitfalls  and solutionscostco comes with a few rules you wont typically find with other retailers. there are no manufacturers coupons allowed, demer said. so that $5 off razors coupon you clipped? save it for target.a potential way around this, demer noted, is to use the ibotta app, which, she explained, is circumventing the pos [point of sale] by asking you to take a photo of your receipt after purchase. the tool will find offers youre eligible for and deposit the cash in your account.and they dont take american express. they actually only take visa cards, cash, checks, debit/atm, ebt and costco cash cards. so if you show up like i did once and load up your cart only to get to checkout with a mastercard they wont take and no other payment method, youre out of luck. if you find yourself in that position theres an emergency escape route: i went to the service desk and applied for a costco citi card. five minutes later i had my temporary card in hand, and crisis was averted.oh, and its byob  bring your own bag. have some giant ikea bags lying around? thatll do the trick. otherwise you can ask the check-out clerk to help you rustle up some boxes to stash your gallon of mayo in.are the deals really that great?the short answer is: it depends.because youre paying a membership fee people feel like they should only shop at costco, demer said, because everything from boxed cereal to diamond rings are the best deal, but thats not necessarily the case.for one, will you actually use the stuff you buy? anyone who has shopped there long enough can attest that theyve bought way too much of some incredible deal, making it, of course, not that great a deal after all when they wasted it. (id have to swiffer my floors every day for the rest of my life to use our stockpile.)and there may be better deals elsewhere. particularly with the health and beauty items, demer said, prices are often better at drugstores or other retailers where you can combine store promotions like buy so many and get a gift card or percentage off with high value manufacturer coupons.the good deals are really goodbut where the deals are good, theyre really, really good. take toys, demer said. she recently compared prices with amazon, and the costco prices are amazing. the way costco is negotiating these toys theyre getting prices that are insane. the prices hands down beat amazon, she said, which is unheard of.what are some other steals? some of the best deals are spices, demer said, and pure maple syrup and vanilla extract. other stores cant touch these prices, she said. if you only buy one thing at costco, make it maple syrup. and if youre not a toilet paper snob, she said, get the big pack of kirkland (costcos in-house brand) tp. even after the best deals we find on krazy koupon lady, it rarely every get cheaper per foot.some of her other cant-miss bargains include cooking spray, nutella, organic spinach, construction paper and cheese.look for deals hidden in plain sightwhile prices for meat are already super competitive, especially given that categorically speaking, costco only carries higher grade meats, demer said, it can get even cheaper. if you want to go crazy, crazy there is a bulk discount, she said. the prices are on a sign way up above the meat counter  the discount is pretty significant. for buying in extra bulk youll get 20 percent off the regular price. keep in mind that a case of, say, ribs at costco may have to be taken out on a flatbed, she said, but if you have a group of friends and want to do a big cookout (or have room for 60 pounds of choice prime rib) it could be worth it.another tip comes from reddit user (and costco employee) fixxall, who posted \"pro tip: for extra lean (and cheap) ground beef ask the meat department for a 10lb chub. we sell our regular ground beef (88/12%) for $3.49 a pound. the way we make it is we take our fat trimmings from cutting steaks and mix it with the chubs to bring up the fat content and increase our profits. the 10lb chubs are probably sitting around 5% - 8% fat and only cost $2.99 a pound! youll have to ask for these specifically as we dont normally put them out for sale.\"this sounded slightly made up but the meat counter at my costco knew exactly what a chub was (though unfortunately they only offer them in the summer, that varies by store, they said).if you love it, grab it nowhaving learned the hard way that theres no guarantee whats here today is there tomorrow (i still miss you, daily greens juice!), i know now if i have a particular favorite to go ahead and stock up. they bring things in with no plan to keep them long term, demer said. but at least theres a way to get a heads up if your favorite is at risk of disappearing. if you see an asterisk on the price sign that means its not going to be restocked, she said. that may only mean its seasonal, but it could also be the end.forget buyers remorsehow much do you hate it when you buy something only to see it go on sale the next week? costco feels your pain. very few shoppers are aware that costco offers 30-day price protection, james said. whenever you make a significant purchase, keep the receipt and check the price on subsequent visits over the next month. when you see a lower price, just take your receipt to the costco customer service desk and get some money back. lost your receipt? no problem as all your purchases are kept in the costco system and can be pulled up with your membership card.try this tip to save $50 to $100 per tripthe front of the store and center aisles of most costco locations are chock full of stuff you had no idea existed, but clearly cannot live without, james said. if you let your cart meander into these aisles youll easily end up spending an extra $50-$100 as this stuff is incredibly tempting. one solution? especially when running in for a few items, james said, enter without a shopping cart. you cant buy what you cant carry.more shopping tips from your favorite storestargettrader joesstarbuckspanera breadwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

any interior designer will tell you that the space in which we sit, gather and relax directly affects our overall mood. its why we place importance on ambiance when trying to figure out which restaurant to eat at for dinner, and its precisely why many make a concerted effort to design a beautiful home.i view my home, as well as my clients homes, as very sacred spaces. they are sanctuaries from the chaotic world that should serve as a restorative place for us to recharge ourselves, says jeffrey phillip, a nyc-based interior designer and organizer. in the non-stop world we live in of never-ending to-do lists, activities and work, its important to make the space comfortable, clean, and stress-free so that we are able to enjoy our time there.marie kondo, a world-recognized tidying expert and founder of the konmari method of organization, agrees wholeheartedly with phillip. she adds that this investment in your space can even pay off in ways some may not wholly appreciate.many of my clients gained confidence through tidying their homes and started making better choices in their careers and relationships. as a result, their lives  and not just their homes  became more joyful, she told nbc news better via a translator. additionally, when you expend time and energy taking care of your possessions and your home, you develop an understanding that your belongings are supporting your life and your home becomes peaceful.5 small changes that make a big impact on your wellbeingcreating a space that fosters calmness, a boosted mood, and a sense of pride doesnt require massive changes or a large budget. here are some small, intentional ways to update your home right now that will have a big payoff:add plantsby now, were familiar with the positive impact that nature has on our mood. for example, a 2015 study concluded that people who spent 50 minutes in a natural setting, versus an urban one, felt happier. additional studies have found that being surrounded by nature reduces the stress hormone, cortisol. it makes sense, then, to bring the outdoors into your space by incorporating living, breathing houseplants.plants are one of my favorite inexpensive items to add to a space. they add life and are a terrific dead space filler, says melissa b. rodgers, an interior stylist based in kansas city. they not only look beautiful but improve your overall health by reducing air pollution, increasing oxygen levels, fighting fatigue, relieving stress and improving your overall mood.for low maintenance options, try ravenea (majesty palm), aspidistra elatior (cast iron plant), and ficus lyrate (fiddle leaf figs).eliminate clutterthe konmari method encourages tidying by category in a specific order, addressing all belongings in the home in one go, says kondo. (read more about this process in the life-changing magic of tidying up). however, if you want to experience the effect of tidying without the whole commitment, you can do so simply by letting go of items that do not spark joy, she says.it sounds nebulous, but this ultimately entails removing items that weigh you down, that dont contribute anything to your space, and that create unnecessary noise.phillip adds, clutter can easily prevent a space from being relaxing since the visual stimulation can be a competition for your attention. for example, magazines and mail stacked on the coffee table, visible electronic cords and cables, and tchotchkes on every shelf and surface.beyond being unpleasant to look at, a 2016 study concluded that clutter negatively impacts our subjective well-being, and a 2017 study even found a correlation between clutter and overeating. so tidying up may be good for your waistline, too.get organizedonce youve identified and eliminated clutter, the next step is to designate a place for remaining items.specifying a home for each item and knowing where to put it away makes keeping a tidy space much easier, says kondo. if you have loose items strewn around without a defined home  such as hand cream, keys and remote controls  try using a tray or basket to designate a place of belonging. organizing possessions on a tray [or basket] looks tidier than putting those items directly on a shelf or table.also take advantage of concealed storage, such as storage ottomans, storage chairs and cabinets with opaque (versus transparent) doors.adjust your lightingwhether its too much or too little, lighting greatly affects our mood and the overall vibe of our home. phillip says that striking the right balance can help create a relaxing, stress-free environment  and it only takes a few simple changes.first, increase the natural light in the room by removing heavy, dark drapes and swapping them for something lighter in color or a material that will allow more natural light to come into the room, he advises. another trick is to add a mirror  or several small decorative mirrors  in spots where the light will reflect from the window. this will help bounce the natural light around the room.interestingly, a 2014 study concluded that increased natural light during the day improves productivity and subjective well-being, and that it can even improve your sleep once youre ready for bed. for the evening, phillips says a lamp with multiple settings is ideal.they allow you to easily go from soft, relaxing lighting to brighter task lighting, he explains. using several of these in your room is a great way to easily adjust the mood depending on if you are playing a game with your family or relaxing and watching tv at the end of the day.change your color schemein the same way that visual clutter can negatively impact our mood, an overly-stimulating color palette can be mentally draining.color is a powerful tool to make your space feel, cheerful, calm, dramatic or comfortable. colors invoke emotions, says rodgers. changing paint color is an inexpensive way to freshen up a space and instantly change the mood of the room.if youre unsure of which colors to choose, she notes that shades of gray, soft blues and even muted greens help create a tranquil, polished, inviting space. also, many paint companies do offer online tools to help you create a beautiful scheme that works for your space (and experimenting online first ensures you dont waste time or money making a trip to the store and buying paint only to find that the color doesnt look right in your home).we get it: painting an accent wall or an entire room might be too much to deal with right now. for a quicker fix, phillip recommends adjusting your color scheme elsewhere, such as throw pillows and blankets, accent chairs, drapes, rugs, and even couch covers.more tricks and tips for a better homehow to design your kitchen for weight-loss successthe kitchen is the germiest room. heres how to deep clean everything.how often to clean (almost) every appliance in your homeheres how often you should replace everything in your bathroomhow to spruce up your home on a budgetwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

fall is finally starting to settle in, and with the cool and crisp air comes the desire to get back in the kitchen and light up the oven. pumpkin, apples and squash may be everywhere this time of year, but other equally delicious fall produce doesnt get the love it deserves. omitting these underrated, or even intimidating, fruits and veggies from your diet means missing out on a wide variety of amazing fall flavors and textures.eating seasonally may sound like a trend, but there are a whole list of reasons to do just that. first, seasonal food is usually sourced locally, so it ripens naturally on the plant, rather than on a truck. that means it retains its nutrients and vibrant flavor. and because seasonal produce spends less time on the truck, its better for the environment. an added bonus: in-season produce tends to be easier on your wallet as well. whether youre shopping at the farmers market or supermarket, make the most of the fall produce by venturing out of your comfort zone with these underrated, yet delicious picks.fennelif you had to guess what fennel tasted like just by just looking at the celery-like stalks, you probably wouldnt assume that it has a licorice flavor profile. derived from the mediterranean region, fennel is a staple in traditional italian cooking. the majority of fennel in the american stores grows in california. interestingly, fennel is part of the parsley family, and all parts of the plant are edible. not to mention that just one cup of fennel contains 20 percent of your daily vitamin c, plus some fiber, iron and potassium.recipe box: fennel can be cooked or eaten raw. it accompanies roasted pork loin really nicely or adds big flavor to a pear and arugula salad.persimmonsif youve never tried this tomato look-alike, youre missing out on big sweet and juicy flavor. persimmons are an asian fruit, and there are two major types  hachiya and fuyu. a ripe hachiya is acorn-shaped and extremely soft (almost falling apart), and a fuyu is smaller, flat and is ripe when the texture resembles that of a peach. both are deliciously sweet and should be stored on the counter. most persimmon recipes use the raw fruit, but cooking it will bring out the inherent sweetness. their vibrant orange color means persimmons are packed with tons of vitamin a, plus vitamin c and manganese.recipe box: if youre still new to persimmons, try blending them into a smoothie or add them to your favorite breakfast grain bowl.endiveendive is confusing. with three different varieties that all look rather different, buying endive can be overwhelming. but heres the simple truth: endive refers to any bitter-flavored plant in the chicory family. that includes belgian endive, curly endive (aka frise or chicory) and flat-leafed endive (aka escarole). all three types of endive have a slightly crunchy texture and mildly bitter taste, and they make a hearty base for any fruit and nut salad. belgian endive consists of large long leaves, which are often used for dipping or holding other foods. curly endive or frise is typically used in salads, and escarole is often added to soups. the three varieties differ slightly in their nutrition profile, but they all contain vitamin c, fiber, folate and vitamin e.recipe box: the easiest way to use any type of endive is in a salad. frise pairs nicely with fruits, nut and cheese in this simple fall salad.leeksleeks look like a giant scallion, and they have a slightly similar but milder taste. the white and pale green sections are the edible part of the leek, and the dark green tips are usually discarded. one of the biggest barriers to cooking with leeks is the amount of dirt found in between the leaves. to clean them, soak the leaves in cold water to release all the dirt. use leeks in any recipe that calls for onions, except caramelized onions since leeks dont caramelize well. leeks are rich in vitamin k, and they also contain fiber, manganese, vitamin c, vitamin b6 and folate.recipe box: throw leeks into your favorite pasta dish, like this leek parmesan fettucine pasta.delicata squashbutternut squash may be a fan favorite, but delicata squash is soaring in popularity. heres the best part about this smaller cucumber-shaped squash? it doesnt require peeling before cooking. the skin is light and delicate, so its perfect for cooking and eating! the flesh is yellow with a slightly sweet flavor, somewhat like a cross between a zucchini and a sweet potato. and because its got that gorgeous orangey-yellow color, delicata squash is rich in vitamin a and carotenoids (antioxidants).recipe box: roast it and mix it with kale and apples in a lovely autumn salad. it also pairs nicely with your favorite grain bowl.parsnipsif youre wondering why the carrots at the farmers market look so pale, its because they are actually parsnips! sweeter and starchier than carrots, parsnips are a versatile root vegetable that can be roasted, pureed, eaten raw or even turned into chips. they are rich in nutrients, like fiber, potassium and vitamins c and e. this hearty veggie proves that white foods have a healthy place in your diet.recipe box: quite simply, roast parsnips with your favorite herbs or turn them into chips.mushroomssure, white button mushrooms are probably a staple for the home cook, but what about maitake, oyster or enoki mushrooms? these lesser-used varieties bring different textures and flavors to a dish. for example, maitake mushrooms look like a flower and have a distinct aroma and woodsy flavor, while oyster mushrooms resemble a giant ear and are more delicate and chewy. both of these types of mushrooms are great in stir fries or sauted recipes. enoki mushrooms grow on a large stem and dont resemble any other mushroom variety. they are crispy and make a nice addition to raw salads. regardless of the type of mushroom, they are all a good source of vitamin d, a nutrient that is often hard to come by in the standard american diet.recipe box: add mushrooms to a hearty gnocchi dish or marinara sauce for a meaty texture.more healthy recipes8 creative apple recipes to try this fall9 nutritionist-approved recipes to satisfy your pumpkin spice obsessionhealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for you5 healthier, better bowls of ramen to take tonightwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

call it the new kale! cauliflower used to be just another ho-hum veggie but these days, its more like a ninja warrior  slashing carbs and calories in everything from pizza and rice dishes to smoothies and soups. the calorie and carb savings are great, but these swaps provide even more: this veggie supplies 3 grams of fiber and more than half of your daily vitamin c requirements in each 30-calorie cup. its also a meaningful source of folate and vitamin k. even if youre late to the cauliflower party, these ten nutritionist-approved recipes will have you singing its praises.thick frosty peanut butter banana cauliflower smoothiecall it cauliflower magic: the humble veggie slips into smoothies to add creaminess, but because it adopts the flavors of other ingredients, it doesnt distract from the great-tasting combo of peanut butter and banana.low carb cauliflower tortillasmove over cauliflower crust. make room for low-carb cauliflower tortillas. this recipe cuts about 80 calories and 21 grams of blood-sugar spiking refined carbs from your soft taco. if the idea of making your own cauliflower tortillas sounds daunting, dont worry. if you can press a button on your food processor and flip pancakes, youve got this!roasted cauliflower and carrot noodle salad with lentilscauliflower is a little less sneaky here, but the cleverness comes from tossing it into a main-dish salad instead of relegating it to side dish status. this wintery salad packs plenty of immune-boosting nutrients, like zinc (from lentils) and vitamin c (from cauliflower), so be sure to have it on heavy rotation as cold and flu season sets in.mini cauliflower pizzasthough theres nothing wrong with a full-size cauliflower crust pizza, minis give you much more flexibility. you can serve them as appetizers, have one as a snack or have a couple as a meal. no matter which way you go, you can feel good about this totally grain-free crust. how you top these cute crusts is entirely your call!egg, tomato &amp; mozzarella cauliflower breakfast pizzafor days when you dont feel like making your own cauliflower crust (which, lets face it, is just about every day in my house), this recipe uses a store-bought version. and while its called breakfast pizza, it would be just as good (and satisfying) as a balanced lunch or dinner.everything bagel cauliflower rollsseriously, what cant cauliflower do? here its used as the base of a grain-free dough to create the everything bagel knockoff of your dreams. as you likely know, a typical bagel is full of refined carbohydrate, supplying the equivalent of about four servings of white bread. skip the post-bagel energy slump and instead, try this 100-calorie cauliflower-based alternative. get the cream cheese and lox ready!cheesy cauliflower breadsticksgranted, this is yet another version of the now infamous cauliflower crust, but the clever idea here is cutting it into a breadstick that can be dunked in marinara sauce. if youre a fan of mozzarella sticks, this is a much healthier dunker that still oozes with cheese. also, its worth mentioning that if you dont have cauliflower crust confidence yet, this site has an easy how-to video.buffalo bites saladthis salad has all the flavor of your favorite buffalo wings, but its clearly a healthier way to go. after coating the cauliflower in a simple batter, its baked (not fried) to crispy perfection and then tossed with more veggies for a fun salad. if you want to punch up this vegan salad with more protein, you could add chickpeas. meat-eaters can toss in some shredded chicken. and if you want to skip the salad and eat the cauliflower buffalo bites as an appetizer or snack, i wont stop you.whole roasted cauliflowerthere is something really stunning about a whole head of cauliflower and this show-stopping version has a dramatic golden hue thanks to a marinade that includes turmeric and paprika. a quarter of this dish fills you up with almost 7 grams of fiber and 6 grams of protein.mac &amp; cheesethe cauliflower is just one healthy upgrade in this comfort food favorite. other healthier swaps include whole grain macaroni instead of ordinary noodles and greek yogurt, which adds creaminess without the buttery roux. these upgrades take a dish that is typically a total splurge to a meal that packs in 17 grams of protein, 4 grams of fiber and about 50 percent of both your daily vitamin c and calcium needs. everyone loves a good before and after story!more better-for-you recipes13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonight10 fall recipes to add to your menu right nowhealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for you11 healthy meals you can make in under 15 minuteswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

after an unusually long and hot summer, the leaves are finally turning, the days are darkening and it looks like winter may just arrive on schedule.if you live in an area that is prone to harsh weather, experts say that now (early fall) is the time to take measures to prep your home for winter. weve compiled a list of their tips and broken them into two categories: what to do indoors, and what to do outdoors.if youre up for getting your hands dirty (and good with a ladder) this weekend, you should be able to diy all of these tasks.?what to do indoors?replace smoke detector batteriesmore structural fires (or fires in buildings) occur during freezing weather than in the heat of summer. this is surge is largely owed to malfunctioning heating equipment (fema found that 35,100 fires that occurred in residential spaces between 2007 and 2016 were caused by heating). fortunately theres been a 27 percent decrease in residential heating fires over this time period.still, ben rutt, director of marketing for keystone custom homes, reminds us that we should all replace the batteries in our smoke detectors now, even if they arent beeping like crazy.same goes for carbon monoxide detectorsabout one-third of annual carbon monoxide (co) poisoning cases occur between december and february, says sharon cooksey, fire safety expert, marketing &amp; communications manager at kidde. co can be created from any fuel-burning appliance, such as furnaces, natural gas ranges, fireplaces, gas logs and even generators when used during a power outage. one of the main concerns in winter is symptoms of co poisoning often mimic the flu, a mistake that can prove deadly.cooksey adds to make sure your fire extinguisher is functional. since they have a shelf life of 10-12 years, its extremely important to check the gauges and dates on your extinguishers to ensure theyre in working order.check the fireplace for air leaks (and use it sparingly)roaring fires are part of the charm of winter, but homeowners should know that theyre by far the least efficient way to heat a home, so save them for special occasions, dan diclerico, home expert with homeadvisor. ahead of winter, check the fireplace hearth for air leaks and plug them with caulk or expandable foam sealant. also check that the seal on the fireplace damper to make sure its tight. and remember to keep the damper closed unless a fire is burning. an open damper is also equivalent to an open window. and its an invitation for squirrels, birds and rodents. paying a pro to remove these unwelcome critters costs about $300 on average.reverse your ceiling fans?\"?when fans move? counter?-?clockwise, they are able to circulate air in a downward direction,? ?cooling things off? which is best for the warmer months, but in the winter youll? ?want to set them to their winter setting?,\" says doug keller, community manager at payless power?. \"this will cause fans to run clockwise,?which will actually push warm air down while pulling the cooler air upward,? ?promoting a more comfortable environment.?\"?winterize windows:? a multi-step process?windows can take a beating during the blustery months, so you should make sure theyre in tip-top shape before winter. here are pointers from lyle kvarnlov, product services manager? at ?marvin windows and doors? on how to do this:?first you want to clean windows by ?\"?soaking and scrubbing ?with a mild cleanser, and drying with soy-based newspaper?.?? y?oull have a crystal-clear view for winter and get an up-close look at any potential window deterioration.?\"??\"?check all frames for drafts and gaps: guide a lighted candle around windows and doors and see where the flame flickers.\"dont be thrown off by condensation or frost: contrary to what you might think, condensation is a sign that your windows are working and maintaining the temperature inside your home. to prevent sitting water, ensure your home maintains airflow and avoid blocking windows with heavy curtains, indoor plants or dcor.?consider energy efficiency: \"the presence of old or inefficient windows could have the same effect on your heating bill as leaving a window open all winter long,\" says kvarnlov. \"if chilly single-pane glass is driving up your heat bill, consider investing in energy-efficient options from a trusted manufacturer.\"check for wall and ceiling leaks? with an incense stick?\"?light weather damage and? ?time can cause leaks in our homes?,\" adds keller. ?\"part of preparing for winter involves? ?locating leaks around your house and sealing them up to ensure you are able to? ?maintain ideal temperatures.?\"as with windows, you can use a lighted candle to check for leaks on walls and ceilings, but if you cant reach that high, use an incense stick.\"if the smoke blows sideways, thats a pretty good air leak,\" notes diclerico. sealing leaks with a combination of weatherstripping, caulk and expandable foam sealant is a great diy weekend project that could lower heating bills by one hundred dollars or more.wrap your pipes?\"??cold weather can negatively impact our pipes as the? ?temperature can cause water to expand and prompt pipes to burst?,\" keller says. \"to preven??t? ?this, wrap? ?pipes with fiberglass insulation or rubber sleeves.?\"?change furnace filtershomeowners with forced-air heating should do this task at the start of the heating season, then one or two more times over the course of the winter, says diclerico. clean filters not only keep the furnace running at optimal efficiency, they help rid the air in the home of harmful pollutants. for good measure, we recommend homeowners also have their heating systems serviced by a professional before the start of the heating season. the service costs between $80 and $150, according to homeadvisors true cost guide. thats a small price to pay, compared with the $4,256 that the average homeowner spends on new furnace.what to do outdoorsclean the gutters ??\"?when it seems that the? ?leaves have stopped falling, pull out the ladder and clean out the gutters?,\" says keller. \"gutters carry water from our homes away to safe spots for drainage, so allowing? ?them to fill without cleaning them out could cause them to overflow, which? ?could result in damage to the roof, the basement? ?and ?[the] yard.?\"?check flashingsa flashing is a barrier found anywhere there is a roof opening or roof plane change, such as around a chimney or where the garage meets the house, says kathleen kuhn, ceo and president of housemaster. flashings are prone to wear and leaking. keeping your flashing watertight will eliminate a lot of water penetration headaches. youre not going to want to deal with that in the dead of winter.prep the lawn by fertilizing and trimming appropriatelybefore the first freeze, give your lawn a thorough fertilizing to replace all nutrients that can be lost from the soil during the hot summer months, says brad wardle, director of marketing at orbit, a manufacturer and supplier of irrigation and home improvement products. for the last cutting of the season, your lawn should be about 2  inches in length. you dont want your lawn any higher than 3 as it may compress under snowfall.you should also aerate your lawn in early fall, when the grass can heal and fill in any open areas after soil plugs are removed, wardle says.plan for snowtake a walk around your property and survey areas where snow is most likely to pile up or blow against.consider if those areas can handle the snow and eventual melting/water, says matthew c. breyer, president &amp; lead designer of breyer construction &amp; landscape. skylights and decorative roof features should be carefully inspected to ensure proper maintenance has been done, and that they are in good condition.check the wood on the garage door for soft spotsbreyer points out the importance of checking the trim and flashing around the garage door for any soft or rotted wood.make sure there is a seal/weather-stripping along the bottom of the door, and that there is no way for water to pool up around it. this way, it wont get frozen and stuck when you go to open it later.more home improvement tipshow often you should clean your home, according to sciencethe best cleaning products, according to the proswhy the 20/10 method can change the way you cleanhow often to replace everything in your bathroom, bedroom and kitchenwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its been a while since i  quit drinking (a choice i made mostly because alcohol plus a panic disorder and clinical depression either dont mix at all, or mix all too well), but i still feel awkward sometimes at bars, and experience the occasional craving after a crummy day. generally, i feel more secure and happier without alcohol  largely because i recall that my times with alcohol werent always merry, and i feel my health has improved without it.but what if you want to take a break from or eliminate alcohol not because you have a drinking problem (in which case, mental health counseling and recovery programs like aa would be recommended), but because youre concerned about the potential negative health effects? or what if you just want to take a pause to reassess your relationship with alcohol? or perhaps youre abstaining just for the month as part of #soberoctober or a diet plan like whole30?quitting can still be tough (if it werent, sober october wouldnt be offered up as a challenge). we compiled a list of mental health experts and registered dietitians tips for how the non-alcoholic can get started going sober.stand back and ask: how does drinking serve me?\"when we are looking to change habits, including non-addictive alcohol consumption, we need to stand back and assess how the habit is serving us,\" says kristin koskinen, a registered dietitian nutritionist. \"are there components of the habit that we arent willing to abandon, like the social nature of having drinks? are there ways to work around it? what are the root drivers that make the habit appealing?\"people drink for a variety of reasons, koskinen notes, but \"stress-management and social connections\" tend to top her clients lists.\"when clients decide to move away from an evening glass of wine (or two) to unwind, it can be helpful to find strategies to help bridge the gap from drinking alcohol to not. the association with relaxation can come from the process, as well as the chemical influence of that glass of wine. components of the process include choosing a bottle, opening it, pouring into a special glass, and that first bite that comes from the tannic and acidic players,\" koskinen says. \"i ask clients to assess what it is about having a drink that serves them. is it the feeling they get from the alcohol? is it the suggestion that a glass in-hand means that the day is done and the pressure is off? what if we took the alcohol out of the picture, but kept the rest?\"asking these questions helps you to reveal the drive behind the choice to drink in the first place. it can also help you to find alternatives to drinking that satisfy those needs.\"when we work through and tap into each component, break down the drives and processes, we can make choices that support our priorities (like hanging out with friends) without feeding the habit (polishing off a bottle of wine).\"change up your routinenot feeding the habit comes down in part to changing the ways you enable or encourage drinking.change your routines for when you usually drink alcohol,\" says karen r. koenig, a psychotherapist who has cut way back on drinking because of health risk warnings. if you generally come home and have a beer, wine or cocktail, instead, get on the computer, take a walk, watch the news, etc. do something differently than the activities you associate with drinking.designate other rewardsif drinking is a reward find another way to reward yourself, says amy shapiro, rd and founder of real nutrition. self-care like baths work for those who have time but i would say add a serving of carbs to dinner or enjoy a healthy dessert or insert a healthy snack at the time you usually drink your drink at home. for example, enjoy air-popped popcorn while watching tv instead of sipping on that drink. enjoy a half-cup of whole wheat pasta or quinoa with dinner to help you feel satisfied and calm (carbs often serve that purpose).make a list of reasons for quitting  and refer to it oftenidentify the benefits of quitting and write them down as a reminder of why youre doing this.make a list of all the reasons you dont want to drink alcohol and read it over daily, says koenig. paste it on your car dashboard and your bathroom mirror. remind yourself that you can drink alcohol but dont want to. when you have cravings for alcohol, read over your list of why you dont want to, distract yourself with another activity, and/or let the thought go by rather than engage with it. sometimes fighting with a thought reinforces it.if youre trying to shed a few pounds, keeping that goal in mind can be great a list-topper for why youre quitting booze.alcohol is preferentially metabolized by the liver because its a toxin, says nancy woodbury, a registered dietitian nutritionist. so when you drink alcohol and eat high-fat appetizers like baked brie, fried shrimp [or] crab cakes, its likely that these excess fat calories will simply be stored as fat. this might provide an extra incentive.want a glass of wine to de-stress? do squats instead (yes, were serious)if youre used to de-stressing after work with a glass of wine, try a quick burst of exercise.do 25 squats, or walk around the block, fast-paced, says cali estes, ph.d, addiction specialist and founder of the addictions coach. exercise boosts serotonin and dopamine in the brain, and a quick shot of both will make the happy chemicals release, and you wont want to drink.if you crave sugar or carbs, try these foodsalcohol is high in sugar, so when you quit it, you may find yourself reaching for other sugars (this was definitely the case with me). if youre used to beer, then you may also be craving carbs. in either case, opt for healthier options.if you drink a six-pack, it is like eating an entire loaf of bread, says estes. try eating a sweet potato or a baked potato instead. it will satisfy your carb deficiency and make you feel full, and the tryptophan in the sweet potato release the happy chemical dopamine in your brain.koskinen recommends dark chocolate for a rush of endorphins.\"not only does it offer a strong flavor, the phenethylamine triggers the release of endorphins, feel-good neurohormones,\" she says.shapiro suggests a cup of fruit or a 100 percent all-fruit ice pop.a drink that feels fancy or fun can go a long wayreplacing an alcoholic drink with a non-alcoholic drink that is special can be a big help when quitting booze, shapiro notes.\"choosing a signature mock-tail  can check many of the blocks, says koskinen. if you use seltzer water and add a strong flavor like citrus or herbs, you get a fancy drink with bite, in a glass, that mixes well in social situations. a twist or sidecar makes it all the more celebratory.\"koskinen also recommends kombucha, but this one requires a disclaimer: make sure you are okay with trace amounts of alcohol (not enough to get you drunk, but not recommended for anyone with a history of substance abuse).\"i have found kombucha to be an effective tool in transitioning off nightly nightcaps,\" says koskinen. \"the sharp taste of kombucha mimics that of alcohol. the still-legal-for-kids-to-drink amount of alcohol in this fermented beverage may be enough to trick the brain into thinking its getting a dose of ethanol, which may be just enough to take the edge off. i recommend kombucha that sports cayenne pepper or lavender. the cayenne pepper offers that extra kick for those who associate drinking with particular tastes, the lavender offers calming properties for people who lean more on the biochemical response to ethanol.\"i order a mock-tail when i meet people for drinks because it feels good to sip a drink that has an air of indulgence to it. the action also helps reduce any worry of being interrogated by strangers about why im not drinking (it happens all too often) because mock-tails look just like cocktails. i dont get a buzz, but i do get a sort of comfort.sometimes it is just holding something in your hand or switching gears that helps to break the cycle, says shapiro. same action, different liquid.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

has your gym routine gotten a little stale or perhaps dropped off the calendar altogether? it can be difficult to get back in the groove of a consistent fitness routine in the fall. somehow, hour-long sessions at the gym just arent as appealing as the impromptu jogs on the beach and sunday yoga in the park of summer days past.the good news? we dont have to dive right into gym mode (especially since the weather is still nice enough for outdoor workouts!). thanks to stephanie mansour, personal trainer and ceo of step it up with steph, we can start to slowly incorporate strength training back into our fitness routine (anywhere, anytime) with just a few minutes each day.the first step? be prepared to get a workout in whenever and wherever you find yourself with some spare time. mansour urges people to stash gym bags where they find themselves most often  which may mean investing in two pairs of sneakers and a few new workout outfits.if you go to an office every day, have [a gym bag] in your desk, if youre in the car a lot, have one in your car[anywhere] where you spend a lot of time for when you need to grab it on the go, she says. in each bag include: workout pants/shorts, a tank or tee, sports bra for women, a dedicated pair of gym shoes and headphones. (research shows you work out harder, faster and longer if you listen to music, so always have an extra pair of headphones, she adds).with your gear on hand, you can squeeze in this 10-minute workout whenever some time frees up in your schedule. think 10 minutes isnt enough? science says otherwise. one study showed that bursts of intense exercise within a 10-minute routine could improve insulin sensitivity (lowering your blood sugar) and cardiometabolic health as well as a 50-minute workout. plus, these [moves] are two-fers or three-fers: two or three for the price of one, says mansour. since they work multiple muscles groups at the same time they are called complex exercises; youre getting your biggest bang for your workout buck.whether youre pressed for time, just getting back into a fitness routine or simply looking for some new moves, these exercises work double duty and hit every major muscle group in 10 minutes flat.wide-leg squat with arm extensionequipment: two 3- or 5- lb dumbbells (for beginners)how-to: start with your feet open wider than your hips, and turn your toes out to the sides. pull your abs in, and then bend your knees. track your knees over your second toes as you lower down into the wide leg open toe squat. then, stand back up by pressing down through your heels to come up. while lowering down into the squat, hold the dumbbells by your sides and then raise them up out to the sides just as high as your shoulders. as you stand up from the squat, lower the weights back down to your sides. repeat 10 times, for 3 sets total.basic squat with bicep curl and overhead pressequipment: dumbbellshow-to: start with your feet a little bit wider than your hips. to go into the squat, reach your booty back as if youre sitting in a chair. bend your knees so that your knees do not track forward past your ankles. press your heels into the ground to stand back up and engage your hamstrings and glutes. then, curl your arms up with the weights into a bicep curl, hugging the elbows in towards your sides. once you curl the arms up, turn the weights and press the weights and arms up overhead. make sure you can see the weights above you in this overhead press. then come back down to center and repeat for 10 times. do 3 sets total.side lunge with bent-over rowequipment: dumbbellshow-to: step your right foot out to the side, and bend the knee. keep the left leg straight as you reach your right glute towards the back as if youre trying to sit onto a chair with your right butt cheek. in this position, hold the dumbbells and pull them up into a bent over row. hug your elbows in towards your sides, squeeze the shoulder blades together, and relax the shoulders so that they dont hunch up towards your neck. release the arms down, and then press off the right heel to come back to center. repeat to the left side. alternate sides for a total of 10 per side. then do 3 sets.pilates half roll down with a twistequipment: yoga mat, optional dumbbellshow-to: sitting on your mat with your feet on the floor as wide as your hips, hold a weight with both hands in front of you. pull your naval in towards your spine, and then slowly roll halfway down onto the mat so your lower back is touching the mat. from here, twist to the right and then to the left, then slowly come back up to center. repeat this 10 times for a total of 3 sets.runners lunge with a twistequipment: yoga mathow-to: step your right foot forward in between your hands, and your left foot back. keep the left heel off the ground so that youre in a low lunge position. pull your naval in towards your spine, keep your left hand on the ground, and slowly twist to the right reaching the right arm up towards the sky. hold for a few slow, deep breaths, and then relax and repeat on the other side.try these fitness routines10 core exercises that are better for your back (and body) than crunches5 exercises you can perform anywhere, anytimea 10-minute cardio workout you can do at home5 exercises that will strengthen your back and reduce pain8 exercises trainers never do (and what to do instead)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as the november midterm elections approach, ask a manager author alison green has been flooded with letters from readers who desperately want to avoid talking about one thing: politics.theyre bystanders to coworkers conversations about politics and they cant get away from it, green tells nbc news better.political discussions at work are increasingly stressing out american workers, according to a 2017 study from the american psychological association.growing enthusiasm around the #metoo movement  and the controversial appointment of brett kavanaugh to the supreme court in october have heated up the debate further, says the management consultant. in the last few weeks, greens daily stream of reader emails has become a deluge.people who are just incensed by the conversations they were hearing colleagues having around them, she says.their ire has little to do with partisanship, she explains. even when coworkers agree with their colleagues political views, they simply dont want to hear it, green says.a lot of people really are so drained by the news cycle right now that they want to be able to control when and how they access it, and at work you are sort of a captive audience, she says.how to establish boundariesshould people simply refrain from talking about politics on the job? the answer, according to green, is complicated.one thing that i think happens is a lot of people assume the coworker theyre talking to has the same political views as they do, says green.if a coworker is saying things that offend you, you might fear getting into an argument, or may simply feel awkward. if thats the case, dont be afraid to politely end the conversation, says green.one thing you can do is say, actually, we see this really differently, its not something i want to get into at work, and then just change the subject, she says.maybe you agree with your colleagues politics, but would rather focus on work. if thats the case, let your coworker know you are taking a break from politics right now, advises green.you can say it in a warm, polite way, says green. most people wont take offense.read your coworkers cueswhat if youre the one whos chit-chatty about politics? when you create a political environment at work, it can be unpleasant for coworkers whether they agree with your views or not, says green.some coworkers may not have the confidence to tell you how they really feel, says the author, so pay attention to your their cues. are they actively participating? do they look a little upset or exhausted? are they giving you one-word answers? do they look like theyre trying to escape?even if you think we should all be able to have collegial, civil conversations about whatever political issue you feel like talking about, youve got to respect that your coworkers might not be in the mood for it.pay attention to whether or not people want that, because it can be a very draining environment if you cant ever get away from politics, green says.if a coworker tells you they dont want to talk politics, thats something you need to respect, green stresses. if you and a colleague are having a civil discussion about politics, green says to keep in mind that those around you might not want to hear it.even if you think we should all be able to have collegial, civil conversations about whatever political issue you feel like talking about, youve got to respect that your coworkers might not be in the mood for it, she says.youre not at work to push political viewpointsduring a heated election cycle, some people may be especially eager to talk politics with colleagues. green says this might be fine in some workplace cultures. but understand that telling coworkers who you plan to vote for, or asking them how they plan to vote, can be perceived as crossing boundaries.youre not there to advocate for a candidate, or a particular issue, youre really there to work, she says.green says its also important to understand that decorating your desk or office space with political merchandise and slogans can be viewed as propagandistic.people who are around you at work are a captive audience, says green. its not really fair to inflict campaign propaganda on them when they cant get away from it and when they have to maintain pleasant, cordial relations with you.should you unfollow coworkers on social media?social media is another place where coworkers may be exposed to one anothers political views.while its important for people to be able to express their beliefs on social media, it can also create conflict with coworkers.does this mean you should unfollow coworkers whose views conflict with yours, or censor what you share? not necessarily, says green.i think the important thing is for you to just be aware of the types of problems that it could potentially cause and decide if youre ok with that or not, she says.if its a concern, green advises making use of the restriction features available on your social media accounts. some platforms like facebook will allow you to restrict certain friends from seeing your posts, and from you seeing what they post, she says.whether political or not, coworker conflict should be resolved face to face, not electronically, says green.if you talk face to face you can convey tone much more easily, whereas if you put it in email, your tone can be misinterpreted, you can cause more tension, she says.understand that talking politics can impact career goalsgreen says its fine to be passionate about politics, but understand how it can impact your career.if youre moving up to a leadership role, you need to show that you are able to get along with all sorts of different people, that youre not pushing your own political viewpoints at the expense of the comfort of other people in your office, that youre going to treat people of all political persuasions fairly, green says.more work and productivity hacksuse micro habits to boost productivity and reach your goalshow to use one daily ritual to tackle a big goalhow to make failure a key to your successwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

a good credit score can land you your dream home without a nightmare mortgage.generally, a higher credit score will earn you a lower interest rate with most lenders.mortgage providers tend to consider a credit score above 700 ideal. but getting your score anywhere in the 620-850 range can save you tens of thousands of dollars in interest over the life of a 30-year fixed mortgage, according to bankrate.com.careful cents founder carrie s. nicholson achieved a 720 score that allowed her and her husband ryan, 31, to buy their first home with an affordable mortgage rate.nicholson, 34, boosted her credit score 100 points in less than a year. heres how she did it.request a credit line increasewhen nicholson began to consider purchasing a home in january, she was disappointed to see her credit score was in the low 600s. the score was good, she recalled, but not ideal.i had some credit card debt on there, a personal loan and a car loan  so it was a good mix of different kinds of credit, which i found out was a good thing, she said of her credit report.but her debt-to-income ratio (dti)  the amount of debt she owed vs the income she was bringing in  wasnt quite where she wanted it. it was high enough where some mortgages wouldnt give us the budget we were looking for, nicholson says.she says the main problem was that her credit card balances were a bit over the recommended 30 percent threshold.there were two ways she could fix her dti: 1) pay off as much existing debt as possible with savings and 2) request a credit line increase.nicholson did a combination of both.on credit cards that were maxed out or had balances above 30 percent, she requested a credit line increase. she says these requests can usually be made online or over the phone with customer service.nicholson says she also used some savings to pay down some debts.i paid down some of the debt on the [cards] where i couldnt get a credit line increase, she explains.proceed with caution. credit line increase requests will trigger the credit card agencies to open hard inquiries into your account, which will cause a small, temporary drop to your score, nicholson warned. but she says your score will bounce back soon.sometimes these requests can result in a decrease to your credit limit, nicholson adds.for both these reasons, she says, its best to space out the requests to keep an eye on things.i did this over a month or two period of time, and i made sure to stretch it out so it wouldnt be like ding-ding-ding and just slam my credit all at once, she explains.pause applying for new creditwhile nicholson worked on improving her credit score, she took a hiatus on applying for any new credit until after her house was purchased.since applying for new credit cards and loans opens a hard inquiry into your credit report, doing so could have caused her credit score to dip.i wanted to ensure the bank that we would not be a risk, and that we werent rearranging our finances and looked unstable, she says.show a history of paying on timepaying your debts on time is the most trustworthy way of maintaining a good credit score, says nicholson.the small business owner had already established a long history of paying her debts on time, which she says contributed to her high score.it was really good to prove that i had a long-standing history of paying the bills on time, that my business was really secure, and that the mortgage company was willing to give us $275k loan in order to buy this house, she says.establish a good relationship with a lenderhaving a good relationship with the bank where you intend to apply for a mortgage will also help you secure a good interest rate, says nicholson. if the bank sees that you have a history of paying back debt with them, she says, theyre more likely to give you a good deal.having a relationship or being a longtime customer can really prove that youve been around for a while, youve used their services and youre a great customer, she says, but then, also, youll be able to ask questions, and they can trust you, you can trust them.check your credit score at all three credit bureausbefore you go mortgage hunting, be sure to check your credit score at all three credit bureaus: equifax, experian, and transunion, since each agency may give you a different score.what i found out during this whole process is that different banks and different mortgage companies check different credit boroughs, so its good to know, nicholson says.she says the bureaus can also make mistakes, so its important to check your report for errors.be patientafter just six months, nicholson was surprised to see her credit score spike to 720. she says it happened much sooner than she anticipated.it just goes to show how much you can accomplish when youre really focused on a specific financial goal, she says.nicholson and her husband closed on their four-bedroom home in colorado springs, colorado in july. she uses one of the bedrooms as a home office, she says, which has a beautiful view of the mountains.its awesome, nicholson says. its my favorite thing.how to improve your credit score:request a credit line increase: requesting a credit line increase on credit cards with high balances can boost your score. but proceed with caution: its best to space out these requests, since they will create a temporary dip on your score. sometimes these requests can result in a decrease to your credit limit. if you can, use savings to pay down debts on credit cards where you cannot get an increase.pause applying for new credit: do not apply for any new loans or credit until your home is purchased,as doing so will open hard inquiries into your credit report. this can cause your score to dip.show a history of paying on time: showing a long history of paying your debts on time is the most trustworthy way of maintaining a good credit score.more from bettera guide to buying your first homehow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayssmart money moves to make now to improve your finances in 2019want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

you could be doing something as mundane as turning left at the intersection during rush hour or looking for your keys on a hectic morning. or you could be preparing for a potentially pivotal event, such as a meeting with your boss, a big presentation or a promising first date. at any given time, the urge to talk to yourself can happen. heres the thing: giving in doesnt make you weird or indicate that something is wrong.talking to ourselves is completely within the norm. in fact, we talk to ourselves constantly, says dr. jessica nicolosi, a clinical psychologist based in new york. one can argue that just thinking things through quietly, without speaking out loud, is talking to ourselves.she adds that, in the same way we seek trusted companions to bounce ideas off of, we talk to ourselves for many reasons. this often occurs when were experiencing a deepened emotion, such as anger, nervousness, extreme focus or excitement. even in otherwise mundane scenarios its typically an emotion thats triggering us to speak out loud. for example, you may feel some stress about turning left or anxious being late if you dont locate your keys.(an important note: self-talk becomes concerning if its the manifestation of a hallucination. talking to yourself, as weve defined it here, refers to knowingly engaging in dialogue with yourself versus engaging with a perceived external source.)if we speak out loud, it forces us to slow down our thoughts and process them differently because we engage the language centers of our brain, explains dr. nicolosi. by talking to ourselves we become more deliberate, and this creates a slower process to think, feel and act, instead of being bombarded by our thoughts.in that sense, talking yourself through a left turn forces you to be more alert, and talking to yourself when feeling an extreme emotion  such as nervousness before a meeting  can help you process what youre feeling and better prepare for the events to come.3 ways to master the art of talking to yourselfdr. julia harper, an occupational therapist and life coach, agrees that its normal for us to talk to ourselves, but stresses that its important to do it the right way. self-talk is a normal part of the development of language,\" she says. \"[it improves our] higher order cognitive and meta-cognitive skills and is a fundamental part of self-mastery. because of its functionality, not only do we all self-talk, it would behoove us to do it well. heres how.be kind to yourself: theres anecdotal evidence, and even a handful of scientific studies, that confirm the positive effect words of encouragement can have on performance. (interestingly, sports psychology is leading the research on this topic.) it makes sense, then, that negative self-talk serves us poorly and ought to be avoided.if were talking to ourselves negatively, research suggests that well more likely guide ourselves to a negative outcome, says dr. harper. however, when self-talk is neutral  as in a statement like what do i need to do?  or positive, such as i can get this done, then the outcome is much more effective.this may all seem very obvious, and yet negative self-talk (spoken or thought) still happens regularly. for that reason, its important to be aware when it happens and to actively nip it in the bud.what we say to ourselves, when we say [it], and how, has a tremendous impact on our self-esteem, beliefs about self-efficacy and overall sense of worth, says dr. nicolosi. when working with my patients, the focus is less on whether they talk to themselves, and more about the content of those conversations.use self-talk to your advantage: cheering yourself on before an important event or talking to yourself while completing a task are two great opportunities for self-talk. in fact, a small study published in the quarterly journal of experimental psychology found that when looking for familiar items (like those keys), speaking to themselves and saying the name of the item out loud helped people find the objects more quickly.you can also use self-talk to work through extreme emotions  including anger, sadness, confusion and stress  and to sort out personal conundrums. consider the act a sort of spoken journal to yourself. (if doing so was good enough for socrates and plato via socratic dialogue, its good enough for us.) as an extension of that idea, its also argued that talking out loud while studying can help expedite and cement your understanding of the topic, notes dr. don vaughn, a neuroscientist who studies human behavior.one study found that asking oneself out loud what a piece of information means significantly improved learning, explains dr. vaughn. a hypothesized explanation for this phenomenon is that the process of answering a question improves consolidation of information from working memory into long-term memory. one is effectively speeding up the learning process by acting as both the inquiring teacher and the challenged student.dont forget to listen: its important to note that [talking to yourself] is a two-part process: the talking and the listening, says dr. harper. self-listening, otherwise known as self-awareness, is a primary factor in offering feedback for self-efficacy.in other words, theres a reason youre feeling compelled to talk out loud, so be sure to also listen to what youre saying, too.dr. nicolosi adds, self-talk should be thought of as a healthy way of giving ourselves the support we need to get through a moment. [its us] showing up for ourselves and being the friend we need.feeling free enough to wholly engage in talking to yourself may take some time, especially since there tends to be a stigma attached to the practice. just remember: self-talk is not only completely normal, but can also be beneficial in the long run  and it may just help you find your keys.your brain on...what happens to your brain when you go on a dietthis is your brain on prayer and meditationsmiling can trick your brain into happiness  and boost your healthwine tasting can work the brain more than math, according to neurosciencewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its fall, which means many of us have a trip to an apple orchard on our bucket list.according to the us apple association, there are over 100 apple varieties grown in the united states. take a trip down the apple aisle at your supermarket or visit an orchard and that number becomes much more believable. as a matter of fact, the united states has 7,500 apple producers, who grow 240 million bushels of apples each year, totaling a whopping $4 billion in revenue.apples are grown in over 30 states, but the majority of them come from just ten  washington, new york, michigan, pennsylvania, california, virginia, north carolina, oregon, ohio and idaho. each state grows multiple varieties, but they almost all include the ten most popular: gala, red delicious, fuji, granny smith, honeycrisp, golden delicious, mcintosh, pink lady, braeburn and jazz. peak apple season runs from july to november, but the shelf life of thick-skinned apples can extend that season until march. (the apples on store shelves throughout the summer likely come from the southern hemisphere.)regardless of when youre shopping, there are a few tricks for picking the best apple in the bunch. first, it should be firm to the touch and free of bruising or brown spots. a few scuffs or specks on the apple are quite normal and dont indicate a bad apple. its difficult to recognize a good apple by color, since each varietal is different. but the apples with the most vibrant color have absorbed the most sunlight and are likely to have the best flavor.once you get your bushel of apples home from the orchard (or market), store them in their own drawer in the fridge. apples actually give off ethylene gas, which can make nearby produce go bad. if youve got a major haul that wont fit in the fridge, keep them in a dark cool place, like a garage or cellar. thicker skin varieties, like mcintosh, fuji and granny smith, will keep the longest.with just 100 calories and 20 percent of your daily fiber, it really is worth adding an apple a day to your diet. rather than googling best apples for pie while standing in the produce section, take the guesswork out of apple picking and add these versatile options to your list.granny smith applesthe gorgeously green granny smith apple is sure to make you pucker. its tart and crisp flavor pairs nicely with savory dishes and nut and cheese plates. i like to use granny smith apples in salads, sauted or roasted sides and entrees, and baked goods, says chef and registered dietitian, abbie gellman, ms, rd. she adds that the tartness mellows slightly when you cook granny smiths, and these apples hold their shape well in baked goods.recipe box: try the most traditional granny smith combo in this harvest salad with crispy cornmeal chicken, apples and gorgonzola. the apples, nut and cheese combo is heaven on a plate!honeycrispthe darling of the apple world, this apple newcomer is juicy, crisp, sweet and mild tasting. gellman refers to it as an eating apple because its delicious on its own or paired with nut butter. i like to use honeycrisp apples for baked goods that are more dessert-specific, such as apple cake or apple pie, as well as in salads or roasted sides, she adds. as a fun aside, the honeycrisp apple is minnesotas official state fruit.recipe box: honeycrisp apples work well in virtually every recipe, but they add a nice crunchy bite to a grilled apple and cheddar sandwich. or wrap honeycrisp slices in prosciutto and add to a charcuterie board.mcintoshthe mcintosh embodies balance with its mildly sweet and tangy taste and juicy and creamy texture. because it grows well in cold temperatures, this apple is native to new york and has been around since the 1800s.recipe box: with its slightly sweet and acidic nature, the mcintosh apple lends itself well to hot drinks. drop some peeled mcinotsh into your instant pot with aromatic spices and youll have a warm apple cider in no time.red deliciousalthough this is the most popular apple in the us, its probably the least versatile. the flavor is very mild, and its soft flesh doesnt hold up well to heat. some might even call it mealy. yet, its ruby red color and conical shape make it ideal for decorations or centerpieces. dont try to cook this variety, as it may break down under pressure.recipe box: red delicious are best eaten raw, so use them as the base for this spirazlied apple peanut butter salad or treat your tastebuds to an umami bomb in this apple brie and mushroom panini.galayou can spot a gala apple by its red and yellow hue. its one of the sweetest in the bunch, and its crisp texture is great for eating raw, juicing or throwing into salads.recipe box: for the ultimate fall treat, combine crisp gala apples with roasted delicata squash in this homey salad. fujinative to japan, the fuji apple is like candy! their higher sugar content means you can go a bit lighter on added sugars in the recipes, says harrington. this multi-purpose apple is great as the base for pies, and it doesnt brown quickly and adds a nice crunch to salads.recipe box: pair this sweet apple with cabbage to make a crunchy apple slaw. its the perfect accompaniment to chickpea, tuna or chicken salad.braeburnthe less commonly used apple is complex, with a sweet yet tart taste and hints of cinnamon and nutmeg. the braeburn can stand on its own as a snacking apple, but it also holds up well to the heat of the oven.recipe box: if youve never tried a braeburn before, youll be excited to wake up to the smell and taste of fall with this jumbo skillet apple pancake. golden deliciousyou can count on golden delicious apples for having just-right sweetness and crispness; they get extra-soft when baked, says jackie newgent, rdn, culinary nutritionist, author of \"the all-natural diabetes cookbook.\" she recommends using them when you want to use less sugar in a recipe without any tartness, like in a leafy salad or in homemade applesauce. true to their name, golden delicious apples have a beautiful yellow hue.recipe box: technically you can use your favorite type of apple for this applesauce recipe, but why not give the lesser used golden delicious a try?more better-for-you recipes13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonight6 dinner recipes to eat after a particularly stressful dayhealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for you11 healthy meals you can make in under 15 minuteswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

my husband and i are very excited to buy a home  eventually. when will we be ready? we dont really know. the whole process feels so incredibly vague and intimidating. the mere conversation about it tends to make us anxious and eager to postpone.anxiety around buying a house is common among those of us who have always rented. an august 2017 survey by loandepot, found that though 52 percent of renting millennials are driven to buy a home, half are anxious about the costs associated with such an endeavor, and only 18 percent think its something they can financially pull off.using the 28/36 rule, which we covered here, is a great way to figure out how much you can actually afford, but money matters are only one aspect (albeit a big one) of the confusion surrounding buying your first home.we consulted real estate and mortgage experts to compile a list of what you can expect of this complicated process, and how to manage it.make a list of 10 things you wantthe best thing to do, in the very beginning, is make a list of the 10 main things youre looking for in a home and make sure to rank them or at least notate which ones are flexible, advises joshua d. arcus, a broker and president of the siderow organizations residential &amp; commercial divisions.the list could include price, location, size, renovation, views, etc., arcus adds. knowing ahead of time that you are really looking to check as many of those boxes as possible but that some will need to be adjusted is important. and along the way you may very well come up with new things to add (and hopefully some to take off).\"if youre moving with others, make sure they have a say in the list.all parties involved in the decision making process needs to be on board and on the same page when starting the process, says justin moundas, a real estate agent with douglas elliman real estate. outline your likes/dislikes about home and/or home styles, determine your short and long term needs in terms of space, number of bedrooms, bathrooms and the potential for expansion in the future.get cozy with your credit scoreknow your credit score and make sure that there are no surprises/errors, says wendy n. arriz, an agent with warburg realty. many people now subscribe to experian [or another consumer credit reporting agency] and are given monthly updates on the status of their credit score. that is a great way to keep an eye on things.credit sesames members with a conventional mortgage have an average credit score of 682.if your credit needs some work, there are a few simple ways to improve it, says collin brennan, managing editor at credit karma. learn more before your go to a financial institution about the three types of home loans available can help you figure out how much you need to save.brennans pro tip: try to limit your [home] shopping to a 45-day window, as multiple hard-inquiries from mortgage lenders within this timeframe may be treated as just a single inquiry.talk with a mortgage broker or loan officernext, learn whether you pre-qualify for a mortgage by consulting a mortgage broker or loan officer.the difference between the two: a loan officer works for the lending institution; a mortgage broker works as an independent agent for both you and the bank. the latter facilitates the loan process to choose the right lender and guide you through the whole process  and you give commission if the loan closes. a loan officer typically works on commission or salary provided by their institution.[they] will ask you about your savings, your income and other relevant questions, and run a credit report. if there is a second borrower, the loan officer will need to run that persons credit, too, says kevin buckthorpe, evp, freedom mortgage. once the loan officer has all this information theyll tell you how much you can afford and the type of loan or loans you qualify for.have personal financial paperwork readyonce pre-approved for a mortgage, youll need to have a lot of information ready to proceed with buying.a loan officer will ask you for as pay stubs, bank statements, tax returns, and other information that documents your financial status to complete your loan application, says buckthorpe. if you want to save some time, plan ahead and prepare a file in advance with your most recent bank statements, last 3 months pay stubs, and most recent w2 or tax returns that can easily be provided to the loan officer. theyll need all this information to underwrite your mortgage  basically, to make sure youll be able to pay back your loan.get a realtor  and be aggressive with your expectations of themthe next step, buckthorpe notes, is to find a real estate agent who knows the local market. based on your pre-qualified purchase price, the agent will work with you to help you find homes that fit your budget and your needs.let this realtor do the hard work for you, including negotiating.a good buyers agent will work hard to find out all details about the homes you are interested in and negotiate not only the best purchase price for you, but possibly negotiate other throw-ins like closing costs and repairs that would normally fall on their buyer, says brenda di bari, licensed associate real estate broker at halstead in nyc. this agent will also have the team of professionals to recommend such as a home inspector, attorney, contractor or builder, mortgage brokers of various banks who can give you quotes (maybe you can beat another banks interest rate offer). a great agent will also save you loads of time in searching through properties for you after having a good understanding of what youre looking for, setting up your appointments and organizing all of the steps along the way.love at first sight can lead to buyers remorseonce your realtor starts showing you homes, try to keep your competitive emotions in check. you may want to beat out other buyers immediately, but hold your horses and visit the property a second time before making an offer.dont fall in love with a home immediately, moundas says. i always recommend to my clients to see a property twice before making an offer. its important to envision yourself in the home, in the neighborhood, etc. this helps minimize the chance for buyers remorse.a rock bottom offer could turn off sellersasking for a lower price than the house is listed at is normal in real estate, but going to low risks offending the seller past the point of compromise.providing a lowball offer on a property can be insulting to the sellers, moundas says. if youre a serious buyer, work with your real estate agent to establish comparable pricing to establish a reasonable offer price. if your offer is less than asking price, have your agent provide the sellers with the rationale behind a lower offer including recently sold homes in the area, condition of the property, trends in the area, etc.have an inspector readyonce youre in final negotiations, retain a licensed inspector (again, your realtor should be able to recommend a few) to perform a home inspection. they will assess the property to size up its condition and see if it needs any repairs.a second or even a third inspection may be needed to determine whether the house has termites or other issues, such as mold, lead-based paint or asbestos, says buckthorpe. the appraiser will view the home and determine how close the selling price is to the homes value. your lender will pay particularly close attention to this information.if the home is less than perfect but the right price, look for the potentialall buyers have the ambition of finding their dream home but unfortunately, thats not always possible, says moundas. its important sometimes to look at a home not for what it is today but what it can be.other helpful tipstypically, this whole process takes between two to six months for most homebuyers, says buckthorne.with that in mind, lindsey harn, realtor at richardson properties, suggests these additional tips for getting through this process.dont be afraid to ask questions.check with multiple lenders before accepting an interest rate.avoid making major purchased on credit and avoid moving cash around during the process.drive by the house during multiple times of the day to get a true feel for the neighborhood, morning, noon and night.ask if the seller has any inspections or disclosures you should be aware of up front. if there are serious issues with the property, knowing that beforehand can save you a lot of time and potential emotions.and finally, a tip from most everyone consulted: have fun, this is a beautiful milestone and youll want to remember it in a positive light.more tips for a happy, healthy homehow often to clean (almost) every appliance in your homehow to keep your house cool without running up your utility billthe property brothers home upgrades that will elevate your space for lesswant to lower your utility bills? beware these home design trendshow to spruce up your home for spring ... on a budgetwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

a few years ago, a sketch on inside amy schumer so aptly depicted a propensity for errant and extraneous apologies among women, it sparked an ongoing conversation that asked why and begged to change the narrative.not naming gender (but including a female anecdote), a male writer for tonic asked whether the compulsion to apologize is less about remorse and more a sign of anxiety. meanwhile, female writer sloane crosley penned an op-ed about women and their tendency to apologize for the new york times that takes a totally different tone, saying sorry can also serve as a poor translation for a string of expletives.its a trojan horse for genuine annoyance, a tactic left over from centuries of having to couch basic demands in palatable packages in order to get what we want, writes crosley. all that exhausting maneuvering is the etiquette equivalent of a vestigial tail.is the need to over-apologize really more a female thing? and regardless of who does it more, why are we doing it?maja jovanovic, ph.d., sociology professor at mcmaster university in ontario, canada and author of hey ladies, stop apologizing and other career mistakes women make, says women do, in fact, have a tendency to apologize more and do it for different reasons than men.we know intuitively that women apologize more than men, but now we actually have the research to back it up, says jovanovic, referring to a university of waterloo, canada study that found that women likely tend to apologize more often because they have a lower threshold than men for what they consider offensive. if men deem an infraction egregious enough, they apologize. the problem is they find very few infractions deserving of an apology, and women are apologizing for just about everything, she says. this seems to fall in line with crosleys line of thinking.like crosley, jovanovic attributes a womans tendency to apologize to being socialized into a passive mindset and people pleasing behavior from an early age. apologies have become our de-facto way of communicating, a way of filling the silence and keeping the peace when interacting with others, she says.she also attributes a fear (the driver of anxiety, mind you) of not being liked and being seen as offensive, to excessive apologies. we preempt what we think people are thinking about us with an apology as if to say, i already know what youre thinking  and im sorry, she explains.without assigning gender, tara swart, neuroscientist, medical doctor, leadership coach and author of the upcoming book the source: change your mind, change your life says serial apologists mostly do so out of habit, possibly stemming from a childhood where one was made to feel wrong or fearful of punishment (and thus, perhaps anxious). it may be that the normal human need to belong has been compromised, creating a shame response thats meant to induce forgiveness and reacceptance, she explains. apologizing when we have done something wrong is a real strength, but compulsive apologizing presents as a weakness at work and in personal relationships, swart says.whats more, if youre apologizing for fear of socially rejecting someone, your words might fall on deaf ears anyway. after examining three sets of studies, researchers from dartmouth college and university of texas, austin found apologies increased hurt feelings and the need to express forgiveness but did not increase feelings of forgiveness.in this vein, swart says both giving and receiving apologies can sometimes elicit what she describes as survival emotions, such as fear, anger, disgust, shame or sadness, which pump the stress hormone cortisol into our brains.flip the scriptfrom a neuroscientific perspective, swart says curbing the constant need to apologize requires the same strategy as kicking any other habit, and thus building a strong new pathway in the brain through:an awareness that you want to changeattention to each time you apologize excessivelyaccountability  have a friend or partner alert you each time you do itmindfully swapping out apologies for other phrasesinstead of reverting to apologies, jovanovic offers these options:instead of saying im sorry, say:excuse me.pardon mego aheadafter youyour turninstead of saying sorry to interrupt you, say: id like to addi have an idea.id like to expand on thatinstead of saying sorry to complain, switch it to:thank you for listeninginstead of apologizing in an email, consider saying:thank you for catching that.i appreciate you bringing this error to my attention.thanks for flagging this issue for meif youre running a little late, instead of saying sorry, consider:thank you for waiting for mewhatever your reason for developing this habit, like with any habit, you can nip it in the bud with a little effort. theres even a plug-in for that; jovanovic recommends a google chrome plug-in called just not sorry to alert you to words that undermine your message in emails.more from betterwhy we need other people to be happyadults need recess, too. heres why you should make more time to play. smiling can trick your brain into happiness -- and boost your healthwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if youre like many of us you may count yourself a target fan. whats not to love about the cheery stores that somehow manage to make spending so much money so much fun?but do you know all the ins and outs of shopping at tar-zhay? maybe not. to get pro-level intel we talked with some superfans of the beloved store as well as a shopping maven. jen coleman and laura wiertzema run the popular blog target does it again and joanie demer is the krazy koupon lady. heres what they shared with nbc news better.get. that. app.ok, maybe you have app fatigue. so do i. but if you dont have targets app, you are missing out big time, demer said. since last year, the target app and their savings app cartwheel have been integrated, so you dont have to fiddle with two different tools. and its totally worth it.youll never miss a discount again; just scan any product youre buying and immediately see if there are any savings. it is an extra step but its pretty minimal effort, demer said. if there are discounts available you can add them then and there (or let your kid hold the phone and do it for you!) and be ready to go at check-out with a single barcode scan in the apps wallet for all your savings. you can use it at self check-out, too, demer said.or browse offers on your phone ahead of time; target knows what you shop for so the app will make helpful suggestions (why yes, i will take that extra five percent off my favorite sparkling water!), or, demer said, you can sort the offers by whats trending.no worries about burning through your data package, just sign on to the free target wifi, she said. the app is also helpful for locating items in store  no more wandering around wondering where light bulbs are.get the redcardall our experts agreed targets store card  available as a debit card or credit card  is a must. with it shoppers get a five percent discount, plus free shipping on target.com purchases.definitely get a target redcard, coleman said. five percent really does add up. the discount is valid on most store purchases, including (good news!) in-store starbucks.and because target loves to make it easy for us to spend money, you can have your redcard loaded into the app so you just scan it to pay, coleman added. never again will you go to check-out and realize your redcard is in your other bag or at home, and miss out on the five percent savings.online shoppers also get free shipping when they use the card at target.com, and the perks keep piling up: using the redcard gets you an extra 30 days to return valid purchases, and if you sign up for target email marketing theyll send you a 10 percent coupon for use in-store on the anniversary of your sign-up date.take advantage of the price match policyfinding a lower price after youve bought something is the worst. spare yourself the angst by doing a check before you buy and taking advantage of targets price match policy, which has gotten easier.you used to have to go to customer service to do it but now every cashier can do it, said demer. while they match prices for retailers including walmart, costco, and walgreens, i particularly love that they price match amazon, she said. the amazon app has a scan technology, so i open the amazon app, i scan things im buying and it pulls up the amazon price and they will sell it to me for that price. its especially great if you cant wait for shipping but dont want to pay the target price, she said; plus if youre using the redcard you still get the five percent discount. boom.stalk the clearance sections in store and onlinethose aisle endcaps can be the repository of some cool things with slashed prices, coleman said, so dont neglect to walk around corners and check them out. or you can let other people do the homework. a lot of people troll the clearance aisles, demer said, and some like to share their scores online. follow #targetclearance and if you see something you like go in and see if they have it.expand your horizonsif you live in a city with a target you may very well live in a city with several target stores, wiertzema said. it really pays to branch out and visit different ones because they all have different things. depending on the stores size and footprint, and when theyve remodeled, that could be as minor as different items or as big a deal as entire product lines. not every store will carry all lines, like say the new collaboration with chrissy teigen, she said, but dont get discouraged if yours doesnt have it. go online and use the store locator, or use the app, she said, it can tell you which target has it for pick-up.want to save even more? use drive-upmuch of the fun of target shopping is, of course, discovering all the things you didnt know you needed. but if you need to resist temptation, know this: participating stores offer drive-up service. just do your shopping on the app and head to target when its ready. theyll bring your order right to your car and you wont be tempted to go in and spend more, wiertzema said.more from betternutritionist approved snacks for your kids lunchboxthe best workout shoes for women, according to fitness experts4 meal kits that make healthy eating even easierwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as a two-time ultimate waterman and 15-time world champion in windsurfing and stand up paddleboarding, zane kekoa schweitzer is no stranger to extremely high-pressure (and often dangerous) situations. in fact, high-pressure may be an understatement. on a given day schweitzer may find himself facing a 60-foot wave or racing 150 miles on the water all while balancing on a paddleboard in the ocean.snagging the title of the reigning ultimate waterman was no small feat. the event incorporates ten different ocean sports over a 12-day period, including surfing, canoe racing, stand-up paddling, swimming, and an underwater strength and endurance challenge, which requires competitors to run 25 yards underwater carrying a 50-kilogram weight.and while much of the preparation is physical, the most important part of his training is mental, he says.known as zaniac by his friends and family for his obsessive enthusiasm, when we sat down with schweitzer while he was in new york city for the city paddle festival, it became quickly apparent that hes also found a way to balance his energetic optimism with a grounded, calm head space that undoubtedly plays a major role in his success during competition. in his new book, beneath the surface, he shares the life practices that he credits for the positive attitude and mental strength that has gotten him through his toughest obstacles.the good news? schweitzer says that whether youre surfing a huge wave in hawaii or headed to an important business meeting, his strategies for mentally preparing before a high-stakes competition ring true. here are some of his go-to practices for remaining calm under pressure, using the ocean as therapy and how we can all benefit from the hawaiian practice of hooponopono.on keeping his cool during competition[when competing] we have to really be in the right head space. of course, months before, were preparing physically as well. but when it comes down to the wire and were being pressured to surf, race or do an underwater strength and endurance challenge, it takes a lot of mental calmness and emotional control. as a professional surfer and waterman, we have to learn to adapt with the conditions of the ocean. if you imagine yourself in the ocean, and a 50-foot wave about to crash on top of your head, you might start to hyperventilate and panic and feel your legs go numb. and in this moment, under pressure, this is when our preparation really comes into play, when you can control your panic, control your emotion, and kick yourself into this state of flow and do whats necessary to make it over this hurdle.on being prepared to hit a hurdleno matter what sport were dealing with, or even what business were in, theres always those times where we confront a hurdle, a problem, and theres always a solution for that. it all comes down to our preparation. at the end of the day, success is when preparation meets opportunity, no matter what sport or business were in. i have a few ways to really mentally prepare myself, whether its surfing waves over 50 feet or competing in the ultimate waterman. for me, visualization and manifestation [plays] a huge role in my success, whether its with journaling or with forms of meditation such as mindful tapping. [they] really allow me to refocus myself in those times during competition, on the clock, or in a pressured event where i can bring myself back to composure and be confident in my preparation.on the mental tools that help him stay focusedwe enter that time in our meeting or when the competition starts, and all of a sudden, were nervous. were shaking. and those are the times when we can either succeed or break. i like to relate this to a huge wave crashing on your head: you could hesitate for a moment and hyperventilate or you could lock into that state of flow, be confident in your preparation and know exactly what you have to do to make it through this challenge. [i have a] few tools that i use to set me up for competition to get myself in the right head space and to be mentally prepared. i like to be in control of my moment, but also be confident in the moment. if i forget about doing these practices, theres a big difference. and ive had times during competition where ive had to stop in the middle of a heat, reset and rely on one of these practices. it allows me to change my mindset, alter my state. sometimes thats all it takes. as physically demanding as a lot of these sports are that i practice, at times, its more mentally tough than it is physical.on mindful tappingone of my favorite practices for visualizing and manifesting a desired outcome or a win is something called mindful tapping. its a great way for me to get back into the right head space, after being thrown off, or leading into the event during training sessions. anyone could practice that and help to get them in the right space. as acupuncture hits pressure points, we go through a visualization of how we currently feel as we tap these different points [on the body]. as we go through these different trigger points, we then start to visualize our preparation and how were going to achieve this. and as we move into our next pressure point, we start to go deeper into detail with our visualization of leading up to that point of competition; that make-it-or-break-it moment, and that decision that were going to make, whether it be being confident in our preparation or whether it be visualizing our course, or knowing the traits of your competition and being confident in your strategy. [with]] these different visualization methods its almost like before you even enter competition, youve already achieved what youre going after. whether youre visiting a business meeting or entering a competition, this can be really valuable for an athlete or an everyday person. and its definitely something i owe a lot of success for, not just in my athletic career but in my career as a philanthropist and an author as well.on his five-minute journaling routinesomeone who has really shaped me into the character i am today and allowed me to be a grounded athlete and person is my grandmother. she [taught] me to take on the practice of journaling at a very young age and embrace the attitude of gratitude. one of my favorite practices that i keep most consistent is journaling. its a way for me to pre-manifest my success and my overall desired outcome.every day, in the morning, ill list a few things im grateful for and then ill list a few things thatll make today great. then ill list a daily affirmation. sometimes, ill write as it already happened; try to feel those emotions of a win, and visualize my friends and family carrying me up the beach or the finish line, and really embrace those emotions. and at the end of the day, its amazing, because of that little practice of journaling, ive made the right decisions throughout my day to put me in the place i need to be to always be taking a step forward. in the evening, its a moment to reflect. i write down three things that made today great; how a selfless action got to help someone else feel inspired or how i felt inspiration from a selfless action. and then i write down how i couldve made today better. its a very simple practice of journaling that takes me five minutes in the morning and five minutes at night. and you know, with the athlete i am traveling eight to ten months out of the year, juggling up to three different world tours a year, i have very little that stays consistent in my routine and journaling has been one of those things thats stayed consistent for over 12 years now.on banishing nerves with a war crywhether im stepping onto the start line of a major race or a big wave surf session out in the ocean, i always have this little method to shake off my nerves before the start or before a big wipe-out. i break out into a war cry to get me pumped up. it immediately sets me off and puts me into that mental state. im ready for war. im ready to go. and i shake off whatever feelings were slowing me down. then ill go through a breathing pattern and try and really fill my lungs with oxygen. and now, im ready to lock into that state of flow and just allow my subconscious to take control from there. at the end of the day, a lot of these mental preparations are just the way for our subconscious to really work with us. ill even do that sometimes moments before realizing that the 60-foot wave is about to crash on my head. it just gives a moment for me to be present.on the hawaiian practice of hooponoponothroughout my day, ill go through a practice called hooponopono; its a hawaiian thought process that actually allows us to embrace forgiveness. its part of my culture and its also something that ive found to really level out my head when theres too much running around. it actually is directed towards your subconscious. so the mantra that i go through, a lot, even in competition when im starting to feel nervous, i say it to myself: \"im sorry. i love you. thank you. i love you. thank you. im sorry. please forgive me.\" these four phrases over and over again. instead of having all these other thoughts running around throwing you off, if i start to realize my heads running too fast, ill start going through this mantra. and its amazing how the subconscious can really play a huge role when we meet that point of pressure. its not just what you do in that moment; its leading up to that moment far in advance.on learning from mother natureas a young kid growing up around the ocean, i always responded well to pressure. and i think thats something thats really unique about athletes that practice in the ocean. we have an ever-changing field, an ever-changing course. our arena is constantly moving and adapting. never [will] any session will be the same. never will you step to the beach and be like, this is exactly the same as yesterday. and so, it forces us to be fluid and to embrace the power to adapt. a waterman is someone thats multifaceted in the ocean, someone who adapts with the ever-changing conditions of mother nature. even in my everyday life, this has shaped me to be a better human being as well, to be able to be present in my environment and then be able to make the right choice to adapt and move forward towards my overall desired outcome, whether it be for the day or for my goal that im setting down the line.on using the ocean as therapy[i started] a nonprofit, inzane super groms, where weve introduced over 3,000 kids to safe ocean practice all over the world, and our charity, stand up for the cure, has raised over $1.2 million for uninsured breast cancer patients. introducing the ocean and this connection to nature with cancer patients or children, its amazing to see this transformation that the ocean takes on them. we use stand-up paddling at our cancer event-as a form of therapy. people fresh out of chemo can go and immerse themselves in the ocean. its hard to think about the stress and the problems you have going on in your life when the ocean is immersing your whole body and youre practicing in nature.the ocean really is the worlds largest crystal. and it emits this energy. its proven that peoples emotions and the way they feel and the way their body reacts, it changes when they step into the ocean. this blue mind state is actually proven to affect the emotions; people who live closer to the ocean are proven to go about problem-solving in a more optimistic way. and they go about their day with less stress. and theyre known to be in a more, broad term, happier people. its amazing to create this passion around the ocean because then they have a connection [with] nature. once you see it as a playground and a place you could benefit from, you learn to respect it. you learn to value it. and then the choices we make throughout our day to day, theyre going to be also in favor for the health of our ocean and the health of our environment. and so, through our kids events and through our charity, its not only healthy for ourselves, but its healthy for the world because were creating this connection with nature and learning how the ocean and nature can benefit us. in return, we want to do something for it.on being more fearlessif you would like to be more fearless, it all comes down to choices you make, day to day. what is it that you want to be fearless for? why do you want to be brave? with that in mind, every day, take a step towards being more brave, being more fearless. even if its as simple as writing in your journal, \"i want to be more brave,\" or that pre-manifested mantra of i am brave, i am fearless. tell yourself you are; youll become it. but of course, it doesnt just happen like magic. we need to prepare for it. every day, we need to move forward on those stepping stones towards our goal. for all those people watching my social media and thinking, man, this guys fearless, at the end of the day, it takes preparation for that. ive shared a few [of my mental strategies] that have really allowed to be fearless and to be brave. and these processes of mental preparedness and mental toughness translate to our physical actions.more mental health help7 steps for getting through a panic attackhow to worry betterhow to take a mental health daya daily ritual that will help you de-stress (in just 5 minutes)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

\"quincy,\" a new netflix documentary about the life of music legend quincy jones, is an inspiring portrait of the artist lovingly co-directed and co-written by his daughter, rashida jones and alan hicks. his meteoric rise  from a poor child looking for a way out of the south side of chicago, to producer of the best-selling album and single of all time  was the direct result of a tireless work ethic, rigid determination, a relentless thirst for knowledge and a big love of life. during the trajectory of his 85-years on earth, the achievements hes amassed, musical and otherwise, are almost impossible to enumerate. heres what we learned about how to age like a legend, from watching the real live legend on tv.never stop learningjones experienced tragedy in his young life  his mother was taken away because she suffered from mental illness, and he thought hed become a gangster until he was 11. but when he first laid eyes on a piano, his destiny became clear: music was the one thing that offered me my freedom, he says in the documentary. dedicating himself to the mastery of music (trumpet and piano to start), he started playing nightclubs at 14 working with ray charles, who himself was just 16, and became laser focused on growing as a musician and songwriter. it wasnt long before he started touring europe (which he did as a teen and young adult) and working with the likes of billie holliday, count basie, frank sinatra and dizzy gillespie, arranging and conducting their music and immersing himself in the culture of each country he visited.to this day, jones sees each day as a new opportunity to learn and theres a reason learning may have come easy: one study found that musical training in childhood literally changes the structure of your brain and how it works, pointing to enhanced verbal abilities, non-verbal reasoning and making it easier to learn a second language.dream bigwhen daughter rashida asks jones how he balances his ego and his art, he credits his lofty ambitions with keeping his ego in check, saying, you have to dream so big that you cant get an ego, because you cant fulfill all those dreams. so far, jones dreams have led him from a career as a session musician, to composing and arranging albums for some of his favorite artists, to composing music for films and television, to producing television and movies, to producing the biggest selling album and single of all time, to the launch of a magazine (vibe) and television network (qwest tv, the netflix of jazz). at the ripe age of 85, jones still seems to be going strong. after all, there may be some truth to the adage youre only as old as you feel  a study published in frontiers in aging neuroscience found elderly people who think of themselves as younger than their real age predicted a younger brain age, as well. so, if your muse is still singing, why retire?build solid relationshipsmany of jones personal and professional relationships were lifelong; he remained close to sinatra and charles until they passed and wears the pinky ring sinatra gave him to this day. and throughout the film, hes constantly embracing someone he calls a friend. a scene toward the end of the doc shows how jones could pick up a phone and get the likes of oprah, will smith, lady gaga and president obama to show up at an event. whats more, his tremendous capacity for connection is actually healthy: one study of almost 300,000 adults of various ages found people who strongly value their friendships had a more positive outlook about their well-being, and older adults supported by family and friends predicted higher subjective well-being over an 8-year span.share your wisdomjones was once mentored by the likes of ray charles, frank sinatra and count basie. mentoring is about one person that sees that glimmer in your eye and those question marks in your eyes, jones says. hes certainly paid mentoring forward: he cast oprah winfrey in the film version of the color purple after watching her host am chicago, and had rapper will smith audition for fresh prince of bel air, the show that made him a household name.research shows mentoring can have a positive effect on protg attitudes, open their eyes to different possibilities and motivate them to seek out new experiences. mentoring also helps protgs stay focused, enhances familial relationships and facilitates better networking practices. jones still makes it his business to mentor young talent, like british singer and composer jacob collier.own your mistakesthroughout the documentary, jones owns his mistakes  from the failures of his three marriages, to his workaholism at the expense of time spent with his seven kids. perhaps this humility has something to do with why so many scenes depict him basking in the love of his children. what wasnt shown in the doc: after giving two candid interviews that spilled some big-time tea earlier this year, jones took to twitter to publicly apologize and bow out of future interviews after his six daughters held an \"intervention.\" \"im so grateful for my daughters because they arent afraid to stand up to their daddy,\" he wrote. \"i am an imperfect human and im not afraid to say it. and im sorry and im not afraid to say it.\"make wellness a prioritythough the documentary reveals that jones almost died twice (he suffered two midlife brain aneurisms and drinking put him in a diabetic coma at 82), he eventually takes heed of medical professionals and changes his ways  even resuming a long-tabled yoga practice (theres footage of him practicing in the 70s or 80s after his brain surgeries). yet, the man has no interest in letting go of the work he loves. scientifically, this may contribute to jones mental acuity: we see him doing word scrambles and crossword puzzles  some studies have shown games like crossword puzzles can help delay onset of memory decline in the preclinical stages of dementia.make the most of every single dayyou only live 26,000 days, jones says. im going to wear them all out.

consumer reports is out with its final test results on the iphone xs and xs max and both phones got high marks. they didnt beat the no. 1-rated samsung galaxy note9  which scored 83 out of 100 points  but they were right behind with a score of 82 and just ahead of the samsung galaxy (81) and galaxy s9 (80).the iphone xs max has a super-sized 6.5-inch screen, the largest display of any iphone to date, but in its review, consumer reports focused on the noticeable improvement in battery life, putting the xs and xs max among the industry leaders.apple also managed to make its already top-rated cameras just a bit better and boost the phones overall performance with a new, faster processor, the editors said.the iphone xs retail costs range $999 to $1349, depending on storage, while the iphone xs max will set you back $1099 to $1449.shelling out $1,000 or more for a smartphone isnt something everyone can afford, but you dont have to pay full price. the major wireless carriers are aggressively promoting these new iphones. there are deals for people who want to upgrade and deals for those who want to switch mobile companies.bree fowler, consumer reports senior electronics editor, says its important to shop around and read the fine print, because these money-saving iphone promotions typically have strings attached. for instance, youll most likely be required to start a new line of service.you may also have to pay for both of those phones over a long period of time which means youre pretty much stuck with that carrier for two to three years, unless you want to pay off the balance of the phone, fowler told nbc news better.big-box retailers and electronics stores are another option. they typically dont discount the phone, fowler said, but they may pay you for your trade-in or give you a gift card.for example, right now best buy is offering a gift card of up to $275 with the purchase of an xs or xs max, with a trade-in of an iphone 7 or newer model.heres a look at some of the deals currently available for customers with good credit:at&amp;tbuy your xs or xs max from at&amp;t and youll get $700 off the cost of a second one. the discount comes in the form of a monthly credit to your account. you can choose either 24 or 30 months to pay off both phones. now, heres the fine print: you need to buy both on at&amp;t next (their upgrade to a new smartphone every 2 years program) and have wireless service. in most markets, you must have directv to qualify for this promotion.sprintsprint has an 18-month lease deal for those who trade-in an eligible older-model phone, such as an iphone 7 or samsung galaxy 8 thats in good condition with no missing pieces, broken parts of cracks on the screen.for the xs, the phone is basically free for the lease period: you pay $41.67 upfront and then nothing for 18 months. youll receive a $41.67 credit for the trade-in within two months.with the xs max you pay $4.17 a month after the $41.67 trade-in is credited to your account.when the lease is up, you can trade in that phone for a new model or buy it for about $250 (lump sum or divided into six monthly payments).these deals require a new line of sprint service or a current line thats eligible for an upgrade.t-mobiletrade in your old phone and get a rebate of $100, $200 or $300 (depending on the quality of your device) toward the purchase of a new xs or xs max. youll get the full $300 rebate for an iphone 8, 7 or 7 plus in good condition; $200 for an iphone 6s or 6s plus in good condition. trade in any other iphone, no matter how old, and youll get a $100 credit.the trade-in savings will be in the form of a credit and prepaid mastercard that will be mailed to you within eight weeks.verizonverizon is offering $100 credit when you trade in your old phone or $300 when you trade-in a phone (in good working and cosmetic condition) and add a new line. that money will be credited to your account over 24 months. if the market value of your phone is higher than $100 or $300, verizon promises to give you the full value as an account credit in one to two billing cycles.note: with all these deals, you owe the remaining balance if you cancel the wireless service before the lease has ended.consumer reports fowler says its important to make sure you know how much youre paying before you buy. a lot of these plans come with taxes and fees that might be buried in small type. you may have to pay the taxes up front.in some cases, theres a sizeable downpayment required. for example, with t-mobiles money-saving promotion for the iphone xs max (64 gb), the downpayment is $379.99, then youre billed $30 a month for 24 months.dont want to spend a grand on a new phone?maybe you dont need all the bells and whistles that come with a thousand-dollar smartphone. consumer reports suggests saving some cash with one of the earlier-generation iphone models still on the market.retailers have already dropped the price of the iphone x (64 gb) from the old starting price of $1,000 to $900 (or lease for $30 a month for 30 months).you can buy a new iphone 7 for around $449 or a new iphone 8 for $599. you should be able to get a rebate for trading in your old phone.the 7 and 8 are still quality phones and they do a lot of the same things as the xs, especially the 7 and the 7 plus which have the dual cameras that a lot of people like, fowler said. theyve cut the prices on those significantly and if you want to stick with apple those are your budget choices at this point.get more simple money hacks thatll help you save5 lifestyle changes thatll get your finances back on track by januarythe 2-minute rule i use to effortlessly manage my money5 apps that can make your financial life easier todaymoney hacks thatll help you save (and keep you safe)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

this winter could shape up to be a gnarly one if weather predictions play out, potentially ushering in a ghastly cold and flu season. its not just the plunging temperatures that leave us vulnerable to sickness, but a constellation of factors, including being indoors in dry air, which fosters germs and helps spread viruses, according to keck medicine of university of southern california.getting a flu shot is critical in protecting your and (others) health, but beyond that, you should also focus on building up your immune system. you can help do that by consuming healthy foods that tout immunity-boosting agents. while there is no one miracle food that will miraculously cure a cold or ward off cancer, there are foods that you can eat every day to keep yourself healthy and ready to fight off any infections that may come your way, says catherine brennan, rd. heres what registered dietitians recommend:beansusually associated with their high-fiber content, this is also what makes [beans] good prebiotic foods. prebiotics feed the good bacteria in the gut, and the gut is actually where most of the immune function in the body is mediated, says dr. keith ayoob, rd, nutritionist and associate clinical professor at the albert einstein college of medicine. good for the gut, means good for immune function. any beans are fine, so have the ones you like, including the kind in the can. aim for half a cup three times a week. this amount has also been shown to reduce bad cholesterol 5-8 percent.berriesberries are packed with antioxidants  key for our immune health because they help the body deal with inflammation or invaders, such as bacteria and viruses, says ashley reaver, rd. they are also high in soluble fiber and lower in sugar than other fruits, which can help keep inflammation at bay.bisonbuffalo meat is high in zinc, which is important in increasing white blood cells to fight off infections, says kerry clifford, rd and spokesperson at fresh thyme farmers market, adding that bison is packed with protein, iron and vitamin b12, too.oysters and shellfishspeaking of zinc, oysters have more of the mineral than any other food, providing 493 percent of the daily requirement, says samantha cassetty, rd, nbc news betters nutrition columnist. cassetty adds that since most of us dont eat oysters every day (if ever), you can also get zinc from other seafood, like shrimp or crab.dark chocolate and cocoa powderdark chocolate is high in antioxidants  flavonoids in particular, says reaver. like other antioxidants, flavonoids help to reduce the impacts of inflammation, which can tax the immune system. cocoa is rich in theobromine, notes dr. ayoo, which may help quell persistent coughs. cocoa powder is my recommended source. i recommend making your own hot chocolate with real cocoa powder (sweeten with some stevia or any preferred sweetener, but go easy on sugar).citrus fruitscitrus fruits have long been thought to be immune boosters since they contain vitamin c, a powerful antioxidant, says brennan. although there is no evidence that vitamin c helps to prevent colds, it may actually help shorten the duration of a cold.cruciferous vegetablescruciferous vegetables such as kale, cabbage, brussels sprouts and cauliflower contain powerful phytochemicals in addition to fiber, vitamins and minerals, says brennan. studies have shown that consuming these vegetables may stimulate the immune system and reduce oxidative stress.garlicgarlic is an anti-inflammatory and anti-bacterial, says dr. divya l. selvakumar, rd, nutrition specialist and nutrition professor. it can help to reduce hardening of arteries (atherosclerosis) and lower blood pressure, boosting immunity and reducing heart disease and other bacterial inflammation.whole grain breadcassetty points to a recent study comparing the impact of a whole grain-heavy diet to a refined grain one found that whole grains improved measures of immune function. the diets werent designed to produce weight loss, and they were matched to provide the same amount of fruits and veggies. the only difference was the type of grain (which also impacts fiber levels). \"the cool thing is the experiment included really easy swaps, like whole grain bread crumbs in place of ordinary breadcrumbs in a turkey meatloaf, which shows that even little changes make a difference,\" says cassetty.green teagreen tea contains polyphenols, namely catechins, which may stimulate the production and activity of specific cells associated with combating viruses, says brennan. in fact, studies have linked drinking green tea to many a whole host of health benefits. look for brands without added sugar or artificial flavorings.greek yogurtgreek yogurt contains high levels of probiotics which may ease the severity of colds and keep the gut microbiome healthy and ready to fight off infection, says rebecca shenkman, rd, expert in nutrition and director of the macdonald center for obesity prevention and education at the m. louise fitzpatrick college of nursing at villanova university. in addition, yogurt varieties with added vitamin d are an even better choice as studies suggest people who consume a diet low in vitamin d are more susceptible to colds and the flu. check labels to make sure you choose yogurt products that are low in sugar, high in probiotics and have added vitamin d.mushroomsmushrooms contain the powerful compound of beta-glucans that help the natural killer cells of the body, says jackie arnett elnahar, a registered dietitian and ceo of teladietitian. in a 2011 study, participants that ate one 4-ounce serving of cooked shiitake mushrooms for four weeks had better functioning gamma delta t cells and reductions in inflammatory proteins. our immune system benefits from the evolution of the mushroom, which have developed a more advanced immune system than ours. in fact, powerful antibiotics such as penicillin and tetracycline come from fungi extracts.nuts and seedssnack on nuts and seeds like almonds, peanuts and sunflower seeds, suggests wendy kaplan, rd, a nutritionist specializing in oncology and weight management. vitamin e, like vitamins c and a, has powerful antioxidant properties that help the body protect against free radicals that damage cells, thus enhancing immunity.pumpkin pureealas, this one isnt an excuse to drink more pumpkin spiced lattes  unless the barista is using lots of real pumpkin puree in the mix. just a half a cup of pumpkin puree contains 50 calories packed with fiber and 200 percent of your daily vitamin a and vitamin c, says clifford. perfect for boosting immunity in the cold winter months. try stirring it into yogurt, oatmeal or even chili.red peppersred peppers actually have more vitamin c than citrus fruit, notes both tony stephan, rd and amy shapiro, rd, nutritionist and founder of real nutrition. if you are feeling sick or run down add these to your salad, snack pack or tacos for a hefty vitamin c boost, adds shapiro.spinachthis popular green is loaded with vitamin a and c, says stephan. cook it as little as possible so it retains its nutrients.sweet potatoesboth vitamin a and c are known to help support immune function, and thus especially important to consume in adequate amounts as we head into the colder months, says shenkman. a sweet potato is a proven powerhouse of both these nutrients with 1 cup of baked sweet potato providing almost 50 percent of daily vitamin c needs and about 400 percent of your daily vitamin a needs.tart cherries (or tart cherry juice)\"tart cherries have been well studied for their effects on inflammation and immune function,\" says suzanne dixon, a registered dietitian, epidemiologist and medical writer. a controlled clinical trial demonstrated taking a powdered tart cherry supplement before and after a half-marathon race protected runners against the drop in immune function post endurance event compared with runners who took a placebo (no active ingredient) supplement.tart cherry juice is a great way to get this food into your diet, dixon adds. try eight ounces once per day.watermelonwatermelon is 92 percent water and contains vitamin c, beta-carotene (through vitamin a) and lycopene. one cup of this fruit contains 21 percent of your daily value of vitamin c and 18 percent of your daily value for vitamin a  two essential immune-boosting vitamins, says shenkman. in addition, watermelon can claim high levels of the antioxidants beta-carotene and lycopene, which may help protect against heart disease and certain cancers, and the antioxidant glutathione, which helps strengthen the immune system to fight infection.wheat germwheat germ and wheat germ oil is one of the highest vitamin e containing foods, says reaver. vitamin e is another antioxidant that can help keep inflammation within healthy levels and, therefore, keep the immune system strong. similar to vitamin c, vitamin e is best when consumed in whole foods and not [when] taken as part of a supplement.winter squashwinter squash such as butternut, kabocha, acorn and hubbard are high in carotenoids, potent antioxidants that can help reduce inflammation and bolster the immune system, says reaver.a word of caution: none of this is foolproofupping your intake of these foods can give your immune system a boost, but as kaplan notes, there is no foolproof system to ward off illness. you could eat every food on this list daily and still get sick. but these foods are all part of a healthy diet and youll have plenty of vitamins in your system to help you get better.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its only the beginning of october, but thanksgiving  and then christmas will be here before we know it. now is the time to make a move on booking domestic flight reservations.every year, travel industry experts identify an optimal window for buying holiday airfare. when exactly is that window this year? and while booking a flight during this window may score us some savings, the financial hit still tends to be substantial. what are some ways to cut costs on holiday air bookings? heres what you need to know to get a jump on holiday travel.now is the sweet spot for thanksgiving flights, but christmas deals strike laterdont wait until cyber monday, expedia determined that the best time to buy flights for thanksgiving is now through october 22. for christmas, prime buying time falls later  between october 27 through december 4.we look at historical pricing data and then at pricing trends as they are now for the year to see how they compared to last years, aaron price cmo for expedia group told nbc news better. thats how we assess the travel markets pricing and trends.what has always struck me as confusing about these optimal flight buying windows, is that they suggest that buying earlier than say, october 28 for christmas travel means youre getting a less compelling deal than you would if youd waited. but isnt buying early always the shrewdest move when you want to save?the answer is ambiguous, in that it really just depends. you might land a cheaper deal today than you would the end of the month, but you could also get a cheaper deal if you waited.its actually more accurate to look at these prime buying windows not as the hands-down best times of year to buy holiday airfare, but as the last string of dates where you will pay a competitive price, and maybe stumble on a steal.i would not recommend waiting past these [cut-off] dates, says price. the prices will get substantially more expensive. airlines do not hold on to inventories and release it, so theres never a surprise. when stuff sells out they dont add planes.what to expect to pay, and best days to flyin its holiday travel index 2018, hopper found that domestic flight prices for thanksgiving round-trip fares are currently going for around $288, hoppers report notes  actually down from what you would have paid in august, on average, by $100. but again, it depends. for instance, the ticket prices im seeing for los angeles to new york city flights for thanksgiving are generally higher now than they were in august.the cheapest day to leave, based on this data, is thanksgiving day, november 22, and the best time to return is wednesday, november 28.also consider that the cheapest day to leave, based on this data, is thanksgiving day, november 22, and the best time to return is wednesday, november 28. the next cheapest day to depart is monday, november 19. so, these fair prices rest on your ability to be very flexible, and possibly even to be okay with spending thanksgiving dinner on a plane.christmas round-trip air is currently averaging $320 round-trip, and you can save the most money by departing on tuesday, december 18 and returning thursday, january 4, according to hoppers findings.do your holiday shopping with a new travel rewards card to earn points fastnow for how to curb these pricy purchases with some money saving hacks.if youre up for opening a new line of credit and dont have a travel rewards card (or want to add another), you should apply for one to start accumulating travel points quickly.now is a great time to open a travel rewards credit card with a hefty sign-up bonus, says chelsea hudson, personal finance expert at topcashback.com. once you meet the sign-up bonus requirements, tap into your hard-earned miles to snag a free flight right off the bat. popular flights during peak travel times can cost more miles, so make sure you compare times and dates to get the most value of your miles.sign up for travel newslettersnewsletters may seem a little dated, but airlines are constantly having flash sales and they often last mere hours (if that), says dom scarlett, chief editor at travelpirates. staying in the know will help you snag the perfect flight for the holidays  especially if you waited too long to book.travel on a weekdayflying during the week is almost always cheaper than leaving on the weekend. the holidays only emphasize this rule.weekend flights often run a little higher than their mid-week counterparts, but the price difference can become much more steep around the holidays, says scarlett. enjoy a leisurely weekend in your own space before heading home  itll be like a staycation before the holiday whirlwind.expedias price notes that red eyes and flights with layovers also tend to be less expensive.research coupon codes and use cashback sitesa simple way to save some cash is to use a browser extension app that automatically searches for coupon codes online. you should also use a cashback extension like ebates, topcashback and retailmenot for a small reimbursement later.there are plenty of last-minute deals you can take advantage of that wont bust your budget, says hudson, noting that you right now you can receive $16 cashback for international flight tickets purchased with justfly or get $15 on flights bought at flighthub.im looking at expedia.com right now with my ebates plug-in and seeing i can get up to 10 percent cashback on my travel purchase. i have used this cashback method often, with success, receiving a personal check for the reimbursement amount within a few months.cashback percentages do tend to vary by the day, and coupon codes expire quickly, so i recommend biting when the offering is hot, and 10 percent is on the higher side.just ask for a better deal (in person)one travel hack you likely wont hear much about comes from kevin huhn, a frequent flyer and business growth strategist.\"book online at the best possible rate, then immediately after (within a couple of hours), call the source you used to book and ask them if there is a better rate.\"eager to gain your loyalty, customer service might do a bit of extra searching to find you a better deal, or offer you a bonus. kuhn recommends doing this again before boarding.\"ask the gate agent if there is something they can do,\" says huhn. \"maybe it is not a discount, but it might be an upgrade, a free meal or a gift card.more travel tipssave $520 on your next flight with these airfare hackshow to pack a carry-on (so you dont need to check a bag)how beat back flight anxietyhow to find the best travel rewards credit card for youwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

productivity coach carl pullein is in deep work mode. his computer screen is dark, his phone is on silent, his email is off. for the next two hours, hes focused solely on the task ahead.its a mode of work known as compartmentalization, where he focuses solely on one thing at a time, he says.in a productivity sense, what it means is that you actually treat different types of work that you have to do as if you have separate rooms, pullein tells nbc news better.pullein, 48, lives in south korea. he teaches english classes in addition to online productivity and time management courses. he says compartmentalization saves him time and reduces stress. heres how it works.block out time on your calendar for deep workeach morning, pullein blocks out periods of time  usually between 6 and 7:30 am  which he dedicates to deep work, whether its video editing or writing blog posts.you can look at your calendar and say, today, its early morning for me, and i can see what appointments ive got, and ive got maybe three appointments this afternoon, he says. and this morning, im relatively free to do writing work or video production or whatever. so i can now allocate time this morning to actually getting down to doing that work.turn everything offfear of missing out, or fomo  the anxiety that we are missing out on something big when were not on social media  has made it difficult for the modern worker to focus, according to pullein.a lot of the reasons why our work seems to take a lot longer to do these days than it used to be is largely because we allow ourselves to be distracted by  it could be colleagues, it could be mobile devices and computers pinging all the time  anything like that can just take your attention away from what youre working on right now, and so its really important to just focus on that one thing.to get into deep work mode, pullein says, its important to turn off all unnecessary devices for a specific period of time. if youre a social media junkie, weaning yourself off your phone will be a challenge, he says. he advises shutting off your devices for 15-30 minutes at a time to get started.you will need to start small, say with 30 minute segments, but gradually you can increase that time, pullein says.stop worryingone of the biggest obstacles to productivity is anxiety, says pullein. compartmentalizing your day, he explains, reduces that sense of feeling worried about everything.for example, when you block out specific time on your calendar to deal with a specific concern, you can better focus on the task in front of you.thats where the calendar comes in handy, because i find scheduling things like that really helps me to take my mind off it, he says. if its scheduled, i dont have to worry about it because i know i will be dealing with it at some time.another way to get focused, pullein says, is to ask yourself: is there anything i can do about it right now?asking yourself this question is a powerful way to compartmentalize, he says.you can answer yes, in which case just do it, he says. or no, in which case you have to put it to one side and figure out a time when you can deal with it.once you have it scheduled, you can focus on what you need to do right now, pullein says.if youre doing a very important presentation, you do not want to be thinking about the problem while youre doing the presentation, he says.in other words, compartmentalization is really about reducing anxiety so you can focus on the here and now, he explains  whether youre working on an important project or enjoying your weekend off.the whole process of actually starting to take action on something is what actually can relieve a lot of the stress and that feeling of overwhelm that many, many people feel today, pullein says.how to compartmentalize your day:make the time: each morning, block out time on your calendar where you will work only on one project at a time. shut out distractions: turn off any unnecessary devices that might distract you. if youre addicted to social media, this might be difficult at first. start by turning off your devices for short amounts of time  say, 15-30 minutes  and gradually add more time.ask yourself this question: one of the biggest obstacles to productivity is anxiety. again, this is where your calendar comes in handy. if you are worried about a problem, ask yourself: is there anything i can do about it right now? if the answer is yes, take action. if the answer is no, block out time on your calendar for when you will deal with it, so you can focus on the here and now.more work and productivity hacksuse micro habits to boost productivity and reach your goalshow to use one daily ritual to tackle a big goalhow to make failure a key to your successwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

q: does it matter what i eat? a calorie is a calorie, right?a: the short answer is no. its nice to think that food is a level playing field  that theres just food, neither good, nor bad. but you dont even have to scratch far below the surface to see that the science suggests otherwise. a strong case can be made that certain foods promote weight gain and increase the risk of a wide variety of health problems ranging from allergies to heart disease and certain types of cancer, while other foods diminish these risks.a pound is a poundlets take weight. though you may be able to lose weight on any number of plans, eating certain foods may give you an advantage. one study comparing differences in metabolism among a small set of adults eating two types of grains  either refined carbs, like white rice, pasta and bread or whole versions, with the entire grain intact  found that people eating the whole grain versions of these foods reduced their calorie intake by about 100 calories a day. whats interesting is that outside of the grain type (and therefore, fiber amount), other elements of the diet, such as calorie levels, and total fat, carb and protein amounts, were similar. the calorie loss after eating whole grains was due to both a slight metabolic boost as well as some extra calorie excretion, pointing to the fact that these two foods have a very different impact on your body.in another trial that estimated food intake, changes in lifestyle and weight fluctuations among more than 120,000 people over the course of 20 years, food patterns associated with weight gain emerged: people whose diets included more servings of potato chips, potatoes, sweetened drinks and red and processed meats gained the most weight  an average of about 17 pounds over the course of the study. in other words, these foods seem to drive weight gain. on the other hand, some foods (including fruits, veggies, nuts, whole grains, and yogurt) protected against weight gain.more evidence came this year after a study compared dieters success with weight loss following either a low fat or low carb diet. at the end of the study, neither diet proved more successful  dieters lost similar amounts of weight on both. but different weight loss advice materialized: both groups were instructed to up their veggie intake; cut down on added sugars, refined, flours, and trans fats; and select minimally-processed whole foods whenever possible. rather than focusing on specific calorie targets, dieters were given advice on selecting quality foods, and with this advice, both groups lost substantial amounts of weight.diet and disease riskover and over, research shows that certain foods lower the risk of disease, and repeatedly, the harms of refined grains, sugary drinks and overly processed foods are documented in studies.a newer area of research adds more strength to the case. the trillions of bacteria in our gut (collectively known as the microbiome) serve to strengthen our immunity and promote better wellbeing, but diet (as well as other factors, including medication use) can influence the diversity of bacteria species that are present. an imbalance of harmful species may increase the risk of obesity, memory problems, allergies, type 2 diabetes, anxiety, inflammatory bowel disease and more.were in the very early stages of understanding the microbiome and its role in health and wellness, but we do know that eating a variety of fiber-rich whole foods from fruits, vegetables, whole grains, beans, nuts, and seeds, can promote good gut health. one study compared the bacterial species among different populations and found that a typical american diet (which is notably low in fiber) is linked to a less diverse microbiome, with imbalances in bacteria that may promote a wide range of diseases. alternatively, enriching your diet with fiber-rich fare might shift these imbalances towards more health-promoting species.food for thoughtdetermining what to eat can be confusing. theres no shortage of advice coming from all directions television hosts and doctors, food celebrities, instagram influencers, your office cube mate, etc. and while its been said that labeling foods as bad can trigger guilt and shame upon eating them, suggesting that all calories (or foods) are created equal might not help the eight in 10 people who say theyve seen conflicting information about what to eat and report feeling confused.eating is complex and we all eat for many reasons: taste, hunger, social and environmental cues, and the pursuit of health are just a few. these factors are interwoven  we dont just eat food for the fiber, vitamins and minerals it provides. food is a central part of celebrations and religious observances, and gathering around food provides a chance to connect with family and friends. to suggest that some foods are better than others isnt meant to rob the joy out of these occasions or imply that you should never eat purely for pleasure.the goal in providing more information (and less spin) isnt to criticize anyone for whats on his or her plate, but to help guide decisions about what to eat to boost wellbeing. knowing that a food is less healthy might prompt you to eat it less often, but that doesnt mean you have to write it off entirely. it just means theres an opportunity to explore the good foods and find ways to eat them that are delicious and enjoyable to you.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

talking about #metoo and the events of this week with anyone can be emotionally grueling and deeply triggering (particularly if you have been a victim of sexual assault). but it can feel absolutely overwhelming, if not impossible, to do so with your young children.but these conversations with our kids are crucial. in the case of fox news anchor chris wallace, discussing the sexual assault allegations against supreme court nominee brett kavanaugh with his daughters enabled them to open up to him about past incidents theyd kept secret. in an op-ed for the new york times, top chef host and author padma lakshmi, who was molested by a family member as a child and raped by her boyfriend when she was 16, stressed the importance of teaching her 8-year-old daughter that her body is hers, and that if anyone makes you uncomfortable you get out there and tell somebody.how and when should we have such difficult talks with our kids and how can they help make a difference?talking answers kids questions and breaks the cycle of silenceit is so important to talk to kids about the #metoo movement, says rachel brandoff, ph.d., an art therapist in the community &amp; trauma counseling program at the jefferson college of health professions. there are confusing positions and conflicting sides, and all of this is a breeding ground for emotional chaos and misunderstanding. kids are likely to want to know what does #metoo refer to? what are these people attesting to? [why] is it that their sharing of their experiences is called into question? [they] will want to know that if and when they share their experiences that they will be believed, that trusted adults will care and that they will not be blamed, shamed or treated badly for opening up about what may have happened to them.jeni ambrose, phdc, a therapist specializing in treating sexual trauma and the founder of global change project, a 501c3 organization addressing sexual violence issues that created mapyourvoice.org notes that upwards of 87 percent of survivors of sexual violence stay silent about their victimization. how you talk in your home about the #metoo movement and current news events surrounding sexual misconduct allegations can lead a survivor in your own home to feel more safe about speaking up and getting help.start the discussion as soon as your kids can talklakshmis repeated discussions with her daughter about her body and its boundaries is an effective tactic that all parents should consider.as soon as your child is talking, its okay to, during conversation, say something like, your body is yours alone, and no one should touch your body, says celeste viciere, a licensed mental health counselor. also let them know that if anyone tries to touch them to tell you. daily, i am checking in with all of my kids about their day, and during conversations i ask them about being touched. its also important to ask, is anyone asking you to touch them? sometimes, sexual abuse starts with the abuser asking the child to do things to them, so preparing your child for this is important.use anatomically correct words to describe private partsthe first thing that is important is providing them with the names of their body parts, adds viciere. saying the words vagina and penis is okay. we often feel awkward about using the actual language and make up names instead, but its important for your child to be able to identify it in case anyone tries to do anything. teaching them in advance will enable them to use the correct language to talk about what has happened, if something should happen.teach them to say no  especially girlschildren are taught to be polite and say yes, please and thank you; but they need to know they can and should say no when they dont want to be affectionate.this is especially so with girls, points out azizi marshall, a licensed clinical professional counselor, drama therapist and founder/ceo of center for creative arts therapy, artful wellness &amp; psychology arts.many times our little girls are taught to say yes, to take care of and to nurture others, especially men. however, they are not [always] taught healthy boundaries, or when and/or how to say no, marshall says. stop forcing them to give hugs and kisses, and empower them to own their body through the choices they make with their body. they have every right to say no, and the sooner they are empowered to make those decisions, the sooner they will identify how to stop the cycle.no means no at home, toorespecting the power of no means enforcing it in your own home. too.at your house, make it a rule that no means no, says jill whitney, a licensed marriage and family therapist. when youre roughhousing with your child and they stay stop, stop immediately, even if its clear theyre having fun. if they say they still want to roughhouse and didnt really mean it about stopping, you have a wonderful opening to talk about mixed signals, [and say] well, it seemed like you were having fun, but you said to stop. so i needed to stop and check in about whether you really wanted to stop.kids have to know they can talk to you without being judgedyou should also communicate early that if anyone touches or treats them in a way they find uncomfortable, based on the boundaries youve established with them, that they can come to you to talk about it, and that they will be heard without judgment, even if the person mistreating them is a family member.it is important to say, even if this is a family member, we want you to tell, says ambrose. i cannot stress how important it is to say we will not be mad at you. perpetrators tell children all sorts of manipulative things to keep [them] silent about abuse  they need to have clear, powerful messages letting them know their safety and wellbeing is your priority.expose them to real, healthy relationships (this is us can help)even if your child is too young to be in a relationship, they need to know what a healthy one looks like. nearly one in 10 women has been raped by an intimate partner in her lifetime.explore and educate children on what it means to be in a healthy relationship, warning signs of an unhealthy relationships, and how to help yourself and/or a friend involved in a toxic relationship, says marshall. through these conversations, children learn about mutual respect, good communication, honesty, support, trust and being your own person within a relationship and equality.being a single parent doesnt disqualify you from doing this.if youre a single parent or have ben through a bad marriage, etc., it is still possible to support your child in learning about healthy relationships, adds marshall. single parents and those who have experienced divorce can use their own personal relationships to demonstrate what was healthy and what was not healthy. for example, i work with a single mother who experienced domestic violence in her previous relationship in which the children witnessed the emotional and physical abuse of their mother. we have worked together with her and her children on exploring some of the unhealthy behaviors their father displayed vs. the healthy behaviors, and how each made them and their mother feel. we also use tv shows that accurately depict healthy relationships - not just the perfect\" relationships, but the real relationships. this is us and parenthood have wonderful examples of couples going through challenges together and how they navigate them in a healthy way through mutual respect and support.dads: step up and be vulnerablequentin vennie, a public speaker, author, father of two young sons and an active member of non-profits such as bent on learning, campaign for black male achievement and lineage project has come to realize, through coping with his own history of sexual abuse and the oppressive silence he endured, that dads need to be open and honest with their children. this is something that can be challenging for dads when their kids see them as superman as vennie notes his children do.vennie chose to disclose pieces of his story of sexual trauma to his children (aged nine and 12) and found that his sons have become more sensitive and respectful of others since.i think it opened their eyes to understanding other people on a human level, vennie says. a lot of times we get caught up in how we feel and we neglect to look at people for people, and instead see them as objects. when i introduced my own vulnerability to my children, i felt the chances of them being victimizers was greatly reduced. they see the world with a compassion that isnt just self-serving.its okay if you cant have this conversation, but make sure a trusted adult doesif these conversations are too upsetting to you for whatever reason, hand it over to another trusted adult in your life.you dont want give your children the impression they need to help you with your problems as this can be overwhelming for a child, says dr. laura f. dabney, md, a psychiatrist. dont be ashamed to admit your limitations. perhaps you can talk about general safety with your children but cant get specific about avoiding sexual assault. thats okay. elicit the help from a trusted family member to teach this part. it will be much easier for a child to listen if they arent picking up clues that mom [or dad] is terribly upset.how to talk to your kids about ...alcohol school shootingsbullyingwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if your fitness routine has been less than consistent over the past few months, youre likely not alone. summer is a unique season: longer days often consist of making after-work plans with friends, taking family vacations and and spending weekends at outdoor barbecues or the beach  not hours logged inside a gym.and while the warm weather does provide ample opportunity to be active outdoors, a more erratic schedule can make it difficult to schedule it in consistently. now that fall is here and work and family obligations tend to fall back in line, we can make fitness a more consistent part of our routine again.but after a few lax months, this is easier said than done. anyone who has tried to lose weight, tone up or even just simply recommit to exercise knows that the battle is often more mental than physical. so we tapped stephanie mansour, personal trainer and ceo of step it up with steph, for some advice on how she helps her clients overcome that mental hurdle. here are some of her best mental hacks to get your mind in the game  and your body back in the gym.start with mini workoutsyour normal plan of attack is likely to hit the ground running, scheduling hour-long gym sessions a few days a week. but mansour says to start small. were talking 5-minute workout small.i tell my weight-loss clients who are not used to working out that they need to start with a mini workout, says mansour. it is an immediate way to combat any excuse you may have on why you cant exercise  after all, who doesnt have five minutes to spare? some people say, i dont have 30 minutes to work out; i cant even get to the gym; where do i start? start with a mini workout  literally 5 minutes, she says.it could be crunches while youre watching tv, squats while you fold the laundry or a walk around the block. it sounds gimmicky but these are the types of movements that you want to start doing so you get that muscle memory, says mansour. in your mind youre seeing the workout as just five minutes and who knows? you may be inspired to go for five more minutes and that will build and build.this mental hack is twofold. first, its easier to convince yourself to do something for five minutes rather than 30, especially if youve been off your workout grind for a while. beyond that, you are slowly starting to condition your mind to put health front and center and getting your body used to moving, which will help build motivation over time.trim down your goalssetting concrete goals is a great way to get your head back in the game and science shows that doing so does encourage behavior change when it comes to diet and fitness. but setting the right kind of goal is key. one that is too lofty has the potential to have the opposite effect, leaving us discouraged and preventing us from sticking with it. which is why many health experts encourage us to set smart goals: specific, measurable, attainable, relevant and time bound.mansour zeros in on the attainable aspect by encouraging people to make their goals more manageable. this could mean reducing your weight-loss goal, lowering the amount of produce you aim to eat each day or shortening the amount of time you schedule at the gym. it may sound odd to aim to achieve less, but mansour cites an example of one of her weight-loss clients who found success with this method: one of my clients had a step tracker and the default setting was 10,000 steps a day. it sounds doable, but this client was consistently falling short, she would barely hit 8,000 most days. so i asked her, why are you setting this goal at something youre never achieving and then at the end of the day you feel so bad about yourself? says mansour.she says the solution is simple: make it attainable by going micro. youre training your brain that you are successful. if i lower her goal to 8,000 steps, shes constantly hitting that goal, and that makes her feel confident, happy and strong  like she can do it, she says. once her client built a momentum of seeing that she could accomplish her goal each day, she steadily increased it and is now at 12,000 steps a day. it took six weeks, but its because of that instant gratification you get from seeing that goal hit by the end of the day; you see that you hit your goal or even surpassed it and that motivates you to keep going, she adds.adopt a go with the flow attitudei have one client who used to get ready for a workout class and if she was five minutes late or got the wrong time for the class, shed just go home instead of working out in the gym, says mansour. she said she was too embarrassed to interrupt the class and felt defeated, so she went home. (going home often meant soothing the defeat with pizza on the couch. see: all or nothing mentality below.)instead of retreating back home, mansour says that having more of a go with the flow mindset instead of being so rigid and structured will enable you to create a plan b (and c and d) to fall back on when things dont go as planned (which, will inevitably happen). in this clients case, a plan b meant hopping on a treadmill for the duration of the class on the days when she is a few minutes late.this also means being more flexible in incorporating movement throughout the day. many of us have a rigid view of what constitutes exercise, but the truth is that if you cant make it to the gym, there are countless ways to get that movement in elsewhere in your day. if you live in a two story home, go up and down the stairs for 10 minutes; have a separate bag in your car and in your office that includes headphones plus clothes and sneakers so youre prepared; if you walk your dog, commit to walking one block speed walking and then one block regular pace walking to add intervals into your nightly chore; if youre doing laundry, do 10 overhead presses then 10 squats before and after each load, says mansour.make skipping a workout a conscious decisionoften, deciding to skip a workout isnt really a decision at all: we sleep late and dont get to the gym or we sit down to rest on the couch when we get home and time gets away from us.mansour encourages people to make this an active choice that we have control over, versus something happening to us. by making it a conscious decision, youre holding yourself accountable  and making it effort to cancel your workout plans.\"people say out of sight out of mind  same thing with workout equipment and wardrobe,\" she says. how do we keep them in sight? mansour offers up a trick: put your gym bag and yoga mat on your couch, so that before you sit down to watch tv after work, you have to consciously decide to not exercise, and physically move your workout gear off the couch to sit down. some other ideas are: sleep in your workout clothes or put them on before you leave the office so that you have to choose to take them off without exercising, or leave your sneakers or gym bag sitting somewhere front and center so you have to make the conscious choice to leave them there. chances are, when you have to exert extra effort to not exercise, youll be more likely to follow through with your original plans.dont get pigeonholed into one type of workoutits easy to fall into the hype of trendy diets and workouts, but health isnt one size fits all and what works for one person may not garner the same results for another. in fact, what works for you at one time of your life may not work at another.clients come to me all the time saying theyre busting their butt in the gym for weeks and months, but not seeing any results, says mansour. if something isnt working for you, try something new. think about what your body actually needs. its okay to make a change if something isnt working for you. after four weeks if you see no changes, switch to a different type of workout.mansour cites one client who became frustrated when the workout regimen and food plan that helped her lose weight in her thirties wasnt working in her fifties. but, in her fifties she was a lot more stressed, wasnt sleeping well, was going through menopause, and was holding her weight indifferent areas, she says. when she replaced kickboxing with yoga (which helped her not only tone up, but lower her stress levels) she was able to lose 15 pounds.instead of feeling pigeonholed into a certain workout plan, i encourage everyone to feel empowered to really be the president of their own workouts.forget the all or nothing mentality  look at each day as a series of choicesthe all or nothing approach does not serve you, says mansour, who says the majority of her clients suffer from this mentality. either they start a diet or weight-loss program and are totally all in or they are totally off the wagon.with the holidays coming up, some people say im going to start my weight-loss goals in january or im going to start eating healthy after the holidays those are examples of the all or nothing mentality and that is self-sabotage, she explains. very successful people tend to say im all in or im all out. when we look at our health in that way it really sets us up to feel like were failing if were not hitting every single thing.we can all relate to falling victim to this at some point: perhaps it was eating that piece of cake at the office party that sent your diet spiraling for the rest of the day (might as well order pizza for dinner if you already slipped up, right?). or maybe you hit snooze one too many times and missed your spin class, so you just skipped working out altogether.to combat this, mansour advises us to reframe the way we think about our health, taking it from being an overarching long-term project that we must stay on top of all of the time to being individual opportunities to make a healthy choice. i encourage my clients to go choice by choice. in one day, you have, say, 40 decisions related to your health to make. so if you choose to workout, thats one. if you decide to workout longer than five minutes, thats another. its choice after choice that builds on itself in that day. its not that you have to wait until the next day to start over. its all those individual choices.try these fitness routines10 core exercises that are better for your back (and body) than crunches5 exercises you can perform anywhere, anytimea 10-minute cardio workout you can do at home5 exercises that will strengthen your back and reduce pain8 exercises trainers never do (and what to do instead)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

ill admit, ive never met a personality test or horoscope i didnt like. a single glance at something that promises to define me and i have an urge to chomp on the clickbait as if it were a tantalizing meal. though i never take what these tests say too seriously, i find it fun to hear tidbits of feedback about myself that resonate as true.of course, this same brand of curiosity is why cambridge analytica found it so easy to mine the profile data  and try to sway the votes  of over 80 million american facebook users. and astrology, another means of self-definition, is gaining in popularity among millennials as opposed to more cynical gen-xers  almost half of them think its a science.so why are we so eager to receive this kind of information about ourselves? in spite of the relative sophistication of society today, people remain a mystery to themselves as well as others  and they are always curious to get a bit of insight as to what theyre really like, says pamela rutledge, director of the media psychology research center, and faculty at fielding graduate university.people like confirmation of their qualities, particularly strengths. in spite of the frivolity, we all have an existential craving to be validated and seen.this craving for self-analysis goes way back to the pre-socratics in greece. people have been eager to understand individual differences throughout history, says rutledge. early greeks, such as plato, explored approaches to psychometric measurements. the four temperaments has been a recurring taxonomy of individual differences; hippocrates described how four bodily fluids, or humors, affected human personal traits and behaviors. these were translated by galen to four temperament categories: sanguine, choleraic, melancholic and phlegmatic. these four traits have also been associated with the four basic elements, the four seasons, with links into various aspects of astrology.a 90s study published in the journal of personality and social psychology revealed three major motives behind self-evaluation: self-assessment (the pursuit of accurate self-knowledge), self-enhancement (the pursuit of favorable self-knowledge) and self-verification (the pursuit of highly certain self-knowledge).the purpose of most psychometric tests was to facilitate understanding to aid in mental health treatment, job and education training and placement and self-knowledge, explains rutledge. there are two main types of personality tests: projective and objective. projective tests assume personality is mostly unconscious and ask a subject to project meaning onto images or drawing that are interpreted by professionals based on validated standards and norms. an example of this type is the rorschach. the second are objective and are scored based on self-report questions. the myers-briggs is one of these.personality tests at worktoday, the myers-briggs personality type indicator is the most popular personality test in the world used by fortune 100 companies, universities, hospitals, churches, and the military to sort-of summarize who you are and what you bring to the table.the indicator offers people an incredibly compelling language of the self. its a portal of self-knowledge, an opportunity to self-manage, says merve emre, author of an upcoming book called, the personality brokers: the strange history of myers-briggs and the birth of personality testing. here is who you are, in four letters, and now that youve met yourself youre capable of designing a plan, or practice of life, that actualizes who you are according to your preferences.rutledge says the value of this kind of personality test, other than sheer amusement, is in its potential for self-reflection and thinking about how your strengths and preferences are a match for your goals. many times, personality tests will identify an area that can be further developed or identify a strength that is undervalued, she explains. if, for example, you wanted to work in sales but hadnt realized you were an introvert, you could use that knowledge to develop strategies to connect with others rather use traditional extravert approaches. conversely, an extravert might discover that certain jobs are too antisocial for them to be performing at their best, or even the kind of vacation they might want to take.emre says results from these kinds of tests can make one feel as if they have a sense of agency over their life. its no accident that tests like the myers-briggs is given to people in transition. the language of type has given you a framework to knit together your narrative in a coherent and compact way, she says. you dont have to apologize for who you are, and by knowing you can become the master of your own destiny. thats seductive model for many people.yet, there can be a downside to these types of categorizations  especially with tests imposed by employers or therapists. emre says shes heard from people who had to take a personality test for work or for therapeutic purposes, only to suffer professionally or be type-shamed.rutledge advises satisfying the urge to take personality tests with caution. first, learn about the test youre taking and what its been used for. the important thing is to use feedback with a positive outlook, view your traits as strengths and figure out how to use your innate predisposition to your advantage, she says, mentioning the clifton strength finder, which focuses on the importance of using your strengths, or the pearson-marr archetype indicator, a translation of jungian archetypes and can be taken online or purchased in a booklet with an explanation of how the archetypes can aid in self-understanding. yet, she also mentions how these types of tests have also undergone serious scrutiny as researchers have challenged their applicability across cultures and socioeconomically diverse populations.this is partly why emre discounts the need for these tests altogether. though they can be useful, im not sure what would be lost in the world without them, she says. this obsession we have with the self comes often at the expense at more social or institutional questions about who is it that benefits from these tests. corporations use them to rationalize their work force, the military uses them, colleges once used them to try to figure out who to admit. yet, racial, ethnic, gender-based and class-based biases are left out. some questions are impossibly classed, and you cant get around the need of cultural literacy to answer questions regulated by money, wealth, upper middle-class standard of living.emre mentions a recent lawsuit filed by asian-american students against harvard university for rating asian-american applicants lower than others on traits like positive personality, likability, courage, kindness and being widely respected.in the industry of personality, who is it that gets to have a personality and who is it thats left out of these conversations about the self? asks emre. often among them are women, immigrants, the lower class, and people who arent neurotypical. there are so many people that dont conform.after all, who among us are content to fit the span of our personalities into four little letters?more from betteryour brain on a dietsmiling can trick your brain into happiness (and boost your health)your brain on prayer and meditationthe science behind being hangrywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

no matter how fabulous the clothes, weve all been there. we open our teeming closets, dressers and handy under-bed storage bins with a sigh and a frustrating thought: i have nothing to wear. if it happens to carrie bradshaw, it happens to the best of us, and this summer, i found myself stuck in this very style rut.im not unhappy with my style or my clothes, but i cycle through the same six outfits over and over (which, for me, means navy, navy and more navy). i sometimes struggle with body image and a lack of confidence with new trends, and im sure im not alone in that. i wasnt certain how to get out of the boring, neutral trenches. my problem definitely wasnt a lack of clothing, but a lack of new ideas. i wanted to call in reinforcements for a fresh take  my friends.our friends are our kindest mirrors. they always see the things in us that we want to hide or dont think we have the confidence to pull off. how often have we each been told by a friend we totally need to try on that cool new item, only to shrug them off and put it back on the hanger? i asked my two roommates, jenny and julie, to dress me for an entire week to see if i could get out of my fashion lows and maybe even boost my self-esteem.putting my wardrobe  and friends  to the testweve been friends since college, and id trust either of them with my life. but i wasnt sure how id feel once id trusted them with my wardrobe. we set a couple of ground rules before they set out to plan 10 outfits for me:they could dress me in anything from our three closets.they could dictate my hair, makeup and jewelry in addition to clothes and shoes.i was not allowed to veto any looks, and would keep mum during the planning process. even if i really hated something, i wouldnt be allowed to say so.i would document each look with a mirror selfie, keep a diary and note any reactions from others.never one for a mirror selfies (in part due to the confidence issue), i looked to the experts of instagram for inspiration. i practiced a hybrid of the eva chen baby giraffe pose and chelsea fagans seemingly effortless i just threw this together smirk and started snapping away. id be pushing myself out of my comfort zone by documenting my day to day looks so closely both before and during the experiment.finally, i turned to my beloved amateur experts for the clothes themselves. over the course of a few hours and a glass or two of wine, jenny and julie selected my outfits, both together and separately. jenny, who sticks to clean lines and sophisticated neutrals with her own style, had me try on a lot of her clothes. she put me in things that were from my own closet, but styled in a different way. this is stressful, but fun ... i want to dress you in all the things i could never wear but look great on you, she said as she looked over my collection of pencil skirts.julie gravitates to a more colorful and feminine look, and loves a good pattern. she and i share clothes quite a bit, so this challenge, she says, put her on the spot a little: there was a moment of next level of comfort zone for you  its not out of my comfort zone, because theyre my clothes...but whats the look thats slightly different than what i would have [usually] picked for you?the night before the experiment began, i had mixed emotions. jenny and julie had picked out a lot of things i loved  but also things i would never wear together, never wear at all or would definitely never wear with the intention of photographing myself for all the internet to see. i was nervous not so much for how id look; i knew my friends had done their job well. i was more anxious about how id feel. clothing is such a personal expression, and i was scared that my clothes wouldnt be reflective of me, or that id be self-conscious the entire week.my first look was for a friday night out with a friend to see a play. jenny picked this one  a sweater tank from my closet (my mom picked it out, i dont like how it emphasizes my upper body so i never wear it), my jeans and sandals and jennys earrings. i was pretty comfortable in this  basically all my own clothes, just not styled in a way i would usually wear them. of course, my friend commented on liking the top as soon as she saw me. jenny and my mom have this one right.next up were my normal days at work. first, a dress from jenny, necklace and lip color from julie, and my own shoes. a few of my coworkers knew i would be doing this experiment at some point, but i hadnt told them when. they both saw this outfit and figured out immediately what was going on. i liked this dress/necklace combo on the hanger, but it didnt feel super me, especially with the bold lip. the dress is similar to what id usually wear, but a different cut. overall, id try this necklace idea another time, but will save the high-maintenance lip color for special occasions (too much for a normal work day).tuesdays look was my white blouse (again, dont wear it that often), a skirt from julie, my sandals and earrings (which, granted, i went out and bought after seeing them on another friend). the pink lipstick is mine, but ive maybe worn it twice. my coworker, who didnt know my roommate had picked it out, said she liked it but that it was more color than she usually sees me wear. this skirt isnt something id ever really pick off the rack. i usually stick with simpler or more classic patterns (big fan of the tasteful leopard print), but i always love it on julie. this felt more me, but not my usual comfort zone. if i borrow it again, id wear with a simpler black top instead. i like this so much ill be looking for more patterns like this to permanently add to my wardrobe.for my third day at work, another julie-styled outfit: a shirt that had originally been hers, but id grabbed from a giveaway pile, my navy work slacks, julies green vest, a necklace ive had since college and my favorite summer sandals. my friend who was in on the gig said she liked it a lot  but could tell it totally wasnt my usual style, and i agreed with her. i loved this look in theory  the brown lip, the vest, the glasses  but i would have never had the guts to put it all together. this was my favorite work look of the week, and i may even have to look for a vest of my own (surprisingly comfy in my usually arctic office).my last business casual work look was interesting  my roommates both styled this zebra skirt in slightly different ways, and i asked them to combine their ideas for the purposes of the exercise. its a skirt my mom picked out (thanks again, kath!), and ive grown to love...when worn with white, black or gray. julie selected the fuchsia top from her own closet, and everything else is mine. jenny mandated the subtle earrings and nude lip. at first, i felt like the inside of a crayola box, but as the day wore on, i grew to like it more and more. maybe i can wear colors that arent navy, black or the occasional olive green!finally, i slipped in a casual look at work  jennys earrings, julies shirt and my jeans and shoes. this top exemplifies julies love of tasteful embellishment, but is not something id really go for. the longer earrings and heels felt like a little much for work, and i usually avoid v-necks to avoid drawing attention to my upper body  but, as the day wore on, i realized that i was paying more attention to my clothes than anyone else. i was into the gold makeup per julies direction, and it was fun to really feel like i was in a julie costume more than anything else.on tuesday night, i had a first date with someone id met through an app. jenny dressed my in my own clothes  jumpsuit, denim jacket, earrings and heels  but not in the way id usually style them. this outfit was the one i felt most anxious in  it felt weird to be meeting someone for the first time in something i wasnt super comfortable in. we were grabbing a casual bite, and i was making excuses for myself to bail the whole time i was getting ready  im overdressed, its raining and the walk is too far to do in heels, etc  and came really close to jumping ship on the no-veto rule. after taking the photo and a deep breath, i realized that my clothes dont really change me. if i act like i have the confidence to pull off a jumpsuit and block heel at a coffee shop, i will have the confidence to do it. ultimately, i ended up feeling pretty good in this, even though it was tough to get out of the house and stop overthinking. i felt like this outfit proved my hypothesis  sometimes, all it takes is a new perspective and the support of a friend to feel a little better in the clothes you already have.wednesday, i joined a friend to walk her dog in julies tank and workout pants. julie requested boxer braids to complete the look. my workout clothes are strictly black, white, and gray  i have long subscribed to that hard-to-escape only wear black because its slimming rule. these pants were not too bright, and the green was a fun little pop of color. not sure if i felt comfortable enough to buy for myself, but its further proof that our mothers style rules are often wrong.thursday night, i went to a networking event, and julie put me in a jumpsuit and leather jacket of hers, and my evil-eye earrings and sandals. she also mandated a top knot  not a look i usually go for. i got myself into the jumpsuit, threw on a berry lip and spent a solid 20 minutes putting up and taking down my hair before finding a bun-making method that didnt make me look like pebbles flintstone (for any inquiring minds  a ponytail and two bobby pins holding a swirl in place). this was another look that i objectively liked a lot but didnt feel very me. as the night wore on, i leaned into it more. the clothes dont make the person, they simply enhance. it took me six days to realize it, but i was finally more comfortable being put out of my comfort zone.for my final look, jenny and julie picked something casual for me on my day off. julies shirt, my shorts (again, picked by my mom), a julie-supervised mini-smoky eye and my choker, which julie wears way more than i do. ive never felt radiantly comfortable in shorts (who does, really?) but this look was cute, perfect for early fall weather, and it was nice to not just wear gym clothes to the grocery store. i felt like all of these things together made me look a lot younger, and i wish id had the fashion sense to wear something like this when i was in college. it was good to get out in the world with an intentional style (rather than gym clothes) for a change.finding comfort outside my comfort zoneby the end of the week, my hypothesis had proven true. despite my boring wardrobe, my body image issues and my occasional lack of confidence, my friends had fulfilled their mission well, and i definitely have a few new ideas for how to style my own clothes. i want to wear things i look good in and feel comfortable in, rather than feel like im wearing a costume of someone elses personality. but wearing something a little different or out of my comfort zone didnt need to be scary  it actually ended up being a lot of fun (despite the many bun attempts and minor pre-date panic). clothes are so personal, and they are important  but they are also simply clothes, and they dont solely define who you are.next: how to build a work uniform on a budgetwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when your kids are really young, theyll inadvertently tell you about every single bump, bruise and boo-boo. when they get a little older, all you have to do is tuck them into bed and, as if theyve been administered truth serum, all of the days confusions seep out of their mouths. but by the time they get to their tweens or teens, single syllable answers like fine and ok can easily replace the nuanced details they used to share about the days interpersonal dealings.between 11 and 14 there definitely is a shift, says joshua srebnick, a child psychologist in new york city. its a profound time of identity formation, where they start to rely on their peer groups and pull away from some of the ways of the past to become their own person.around the age of 12 and 13, srebnick says this can mean your kid no longer feels the need to give you the play-by-play of the day. the birth of self-awareness can spark this desire to disconnect a little from your parents, srebnick explains. they need their parents so much in some ways yet want to go out there and do their thing. and so this is the birth of one-word answers. the idea of having to explain all the highs and lows of their day seems impossible.yet, it behooves parents to know something of their kids business during these years. according to a 2015 study, kids who have positive relationships with their parents are less inclined to engage in risky behavior. and teens are prone to risk-taking because the frontal lobes their brains  the part that rules reasoning and risk mitigating  simply isnt developed yet. a childs brain develops from back to front. they dont have the judgment to moderate their impulsivity, says frances jensen, md, facp, professor of neurology at penn medicine, and author of the teenaged brain: a neuroscientists survival guide to raising adolescents and young adults.so hows a parent to keep the lines of communications open when their kids start shutting them down?start youngits much easier to keep the lines of communication open with your child if open communication has always been big in your home, srebnick says. besides, the way kids are wired supports this kind of learned behavior. the neurons in various brain areas connect with synapses, which are pruned into adulthood, says jensen. they start with a lot of brain cells and, their experiences (doing something through repetition) strengthen the synapse. this is why children can learn things faster than adults. adolescents are learning machines. the more they use their brains, the stronger the connections get, she explains.go where they gotext, snapchat are great ways to have a quick catch up with your kids and even talk about sensitive topics they may not feel comfortable talking to you about in person, suggests yalda t. uhls, child psychologist, author of media moms &amp; digital dads, and ucla adjunct professor.dont offer solutionswhen our kids open up, solutions or comparisons to our own lives can fall on deaf ears, says srebnick. when we do that, we stop the flow of communication because we tell our kids they arent allowed to have their own feelings, he says. whatever theyre upset about, in that moment, its the worst thing in the world.thats because strong emotional reactions are, quite simply, part of the adolescent brain make-up. by the teenaged years, the limbic system  the emotional center  is lit up, even in an mri, explains jensen. their emotions are in technicolor and it activates their urge to take risks. its good for parents to know this is to be expected. dont make fun of them for overreacting. if you were to look at your childs brain, its as if they actually feel an international incident is happening, she says.and to have someone tell you its going to get better doesnt really help, says srebnick, who suggests, take a zen rock in the river approach by acknowledging them and offering support without trying to project any outcomes, point out their role in their situation, or fix things.ask open-ended questionsif your kid has something to confess, or something a little more serious than the everyday social scuffles, what your child needs most is an advocate. srebnick recommends entering this kind of dialogue openly, by asking questions, to keep the conversation flowing. they already feel bad and scared. ask questions, but not loaded questions, about what theyre feeling, not what they did. create a world of acceptance for them as a person, not what they did, he says.get out on the open roadif youre feeling a disconnect with your kid, srebnick says a road trip can do wonders to get them chatting. if confined to a car, at some point, your child will talk to you, he says. he also advises to make these little sojourns a regular occurrence when things are fine, not just in those moments when your kid is stressed or heartbroken.have their backoccasionally, a normally clammed-up kid might feel compelled to let their emotions loose with an outburst, but srebnick says this doesnt necessarily mean your kid is going through an awful time. sometimes, something happens or something is activated in our tweens and teens where they really need to talk and the levee just breaks, explains srebnick. if you talk to any preteen or teen, they feel so good when theyre good, and so bad when theyre bad. its hard for them to self-regulate and find lukewarm water. just be warned this might not be the new normal and your kid might resume their typical reserve, and thats ok, too.we arent going to always be there to fix things for our kids, but if given a chance, theyll eventually learn how to themselves. in the meantime, like srebnick says, be a rock in the river. sometimes, we need to give our kids a frontal lobe assist, says jensen, sagely. count to 10 and appreciate the biology.more from betterrealistic screen time solutions for kids (and their parents)a better morning routine for kids and parentsback to school lunch gear that makes healthy eating even easierwant compassionate, bully-proof kids? do thiswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

an ax murderer is attacking you. you find yourself in bed with a coworker. youre walking down a road and suddenly your feet leave the ground and youre flying.our dreams are the wild west of our minds where rules and order dont exist.or do they?the scientists who study dreaming say it isnt really as strange a phenomenon as it might otherwise seem  and even the really weird dreams probably dont come out of the blue.the brain thinks, makes memories, and solves problems. it observes new information. it processes that information by determining whats important, whats not, and whats connected to something you already know. and then the brain either stores that information or dumps whats not useful, explains robert stickgold, phd, associate professor of psychiatry at harvard medical schools center for sleep and cognition, who studies the role of cognition in sleep.and you cant do all of that at the same time, he tells nbc news better. you cant both think about something and listen to people at the same time.our brains need offline time for processing and learning new things  and they do this during sleep. (and theres a whole lot of evidence to support the idea that sleep makes learning and memory storing possible.)and it might be that dreaming plays a role in that process, stickgold says  where the brain is trying to solve problems and complete processes that were going on during waking that it  in its waking hours  didnt complete.the dreaming brain can build stories better than a brain thats awakethere are certain questions that come up for which we plot a potential course of action or think through a future scenario to solve, stickgold explains.thats what our brains cant do in the background when were awake. but that type of narrative construction (building a story) still requires us to be consciously aware, stickgold says  which is one feature of dreams. we know theyre happening.it might be that you need to bring that sleep-dependent memory processing into consciousness to be able to solve those kinds of problems that require the development of a plan or a narrative or a plot, stickgold says  that you need to dream to do that kind of thinking .several studies show (what nearly everyone has probably experienced on their own) that our waking experiences show up in our dreams. other research shows that we are more likely to remember something if we dream about it. (erin wamsley, phd, an assistant professor in the psychology department at furman university in greenville, south carolina, explains all of those studies in further depth in a review article in a 2014 issue of current neurology and neuroscience reports.)and more research suggests that dreaming does actually help us problem solve.a set of experiments conducted by wamsleys and stickgolds group (when wamsley was at harvard) showed that when a group of 99 individuals were given the task of navigating a complex maze, those whose performance on the task improved the most when re-tested after a five-hour period were those individuals given the opportunity to take a nap  and more specifically those who reported dreaming about the maze during that nap  compared to when they were simply awake during that time (even if they reported thinking about the maze during that period of being awake).and perhaps more interesting still, research that looks at the mechanical changes in the brain during sleep and during dreaming align with this thinking, too.during dreaming, the visual and emotional processing areas of the brain are activeresearchers have measured brain activity during sleep and during dreaming. and it does match the psychology in some interesting ways, says benjamin baird, phd, a researcher at the center for sleep and consciousness at university of wisconsin-madison, whose work focuses on understanding the neural mechanisms of consciousness.studies going back to the 1990s suggest the amygdala (a part of our brain that plays a role in emotional processing) appear to be very active during dreaming. and more recent work from bairds group suggests that areas of the brain known to be involved in visual processing (the regions that appear to allow us to register colors, motion, and faces) are active during dreaming.on the flip side, other parts of the brain (the frontal and prefrontal cortices, which are involved with our ability to plan, think through things and apply logic and order) are less active during dreaming compared with other parts of sleep and wakefulness (that research also goes back to the late 1990s). that doesnt mean theyre totally off, but it means activity is suppressed to a very large extent, baird says.all of that seems to fit our understanding of dreaming, baird says  that we are visually and emotionally processing things, but certain executive processing functions (like being able to plan out the future or weigh the past against a present scenario) dont really happen during dreaming.the big caveat, however, is that nearly all of those studies have come to those conclusions using rapid eye movement (rem) sleep to measure dream sleep, baird says  which is a big (and actually a wrongful) assumption.we dream in the non-rem stages of sleep as well as in the rem stages of sleep, and we spend some of our time in rem sleep not dreaming.but, baird adds, rem sleep can be useful for approximating whats happening during dreaming because its during rem sleep that we tend to have the most vivid, story-like dreams. and data suggests that we spend the vast majority of our time in rem sleep (as much as 95 percent of it, according to research from baird and his colleagues published in 2017 in the journal nature neuroscience) dreaming.so looking at the brain during rem sleep can still give us some clues about whats happening, baird says.and its not actually that difficult to understand that when this type of brain activity happens, we dream, he adds.what the brain is doing at all times is trying to construct a model of the world around us from the best input it has, baird says. when were awake the input comes from our environment (what we see, taste, smell, hear, and feel). but when were asleep, it may be trying to do the same thing  but the input comes from within.during sleep  and particularly during rem sleep when the brain is becoming activated again  the brain tries to do what it always does: it tries to construct a reasonable model of the world, he says.so, why do we dream the truly wacky dreams?but some dreams are very far from reasonable. some dreams are really weird.even the really weird dreams may just be part of the brains process of elimination-approach to problem solving, according to stickgold.a lot of memory processing happens during sleep, he says. the brain is filing away new memories, deciding which ones to store and which ones not to. if we presume the brain is indeed problem solving during dreaming, its going to look through all of those files (sometimes the ones you just put there and sometimes the really old, dusty ones from a while back) and try to find something useful.your brain is looking for associated memories that are relevant to recent events, stickgold explains.and remember the emotional centers of the brain are more active during rem, and the parts responsible for logical thinking are less active. so it would make sense that the memories the brain uses during dreaming may be the more emotionally charged ones, and ones that may not fit the logical narrative.this is when your brain is trying the out-of-the-box solutions, stickgold says. its not necessarily looking for something reliable that works every time.the brain is acting like a venture capitalist, he says. its intentionally throwing a lot of spaghetti against the wall to see what sticks, knowing that some of it wont.more \"this is your brain on\"what the beach does to your brainyour brain on a dietsmiling can trick your brain into happiness (and boost your health)your brain on prayer and meditiationthe science behind being hangrywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

you may already be among the cult following of the quirky chain of small groceries stores known for their cheerful, hawaiian shirt-clad crew, but how strong is your trader joes game?if youre like me you may be on auto-pilot when you shop, grabbing the same things every week in a rush to get on to the next thing. what are we missing out out on? i talked with two super fans to find out.deana gunn is co-author of 10 trader joes cookbooks, and shopped at their very first store. amanda hibshman is a culinary dietitian and nutrition expert behind the blog fearless flying kitchen, and hosts a youtube series with her best friend, a 10-year crew member of trader joes.the first rule of trader joes is if you love it, stock upstore fans really love their stuff, and will pile their carts high with favorites. although this only perpetuates the cycle, if theres something you love, better grab a few, gunn said. some things are seasonal, like pie crust and puff pastry (made with real butter), while others get a lot of buzz and disappear fast. i arrived at the wine shop once to pick up a four-pack of their sparkling rose only to learn that five minutes before a customer had carted off every last pack, with no more expected for weeks. now, if i especially like something (currently the cauliflower gnocchi) i have no qualms about loading up.try before you buyyou probably already know about the sample station at trader joes. but what if theres a new product youre interested in, but arent quite sure you want to buy? flag a crew member, gunn said, and ask if theyve had it. chances are they can tell you about it, but better still, they may just pop it open then and there and let you try it. say its something that doesnt lend itself to in-store sampling  no worries. their approach to returns is fantastic, gunn said. maybe you came home with a slimy cucumber, that can happen, its not like an embarrassing awkward experience [to return it], theyre like, sorry about that, sure! even that part of it feels friendly.think outside the box (or bag)trader joes is great at having ready prepared meals already, hibshman said. but you can take it to a whole new level by changing the application.my best friend turned me onto experimenting with sauting their salads, she said. maybe not so much with a lettuce based version, but they have this kale and edamame salad with cranberries and nuts, she said. saut that with with the dressing pack, and add meat to it. boom: dinner. (and conveniently, at least at my shop, the prepared chicken and other meats are just a few feet from the bagged salads.) or roll it up! they have a brand new kale chicken salad, that would make a cool wrap.hibshman raves about their new fresh salad dressings, but dont stop at salads. use their dressings to saut vegetables or marinate meat, she said, or try pouring the miso ginger over grilled pork.its all about the mix and matchthe ingredients at trader joes combine easily, gunn said. they have all these basics that work for quick meal. take frozen dumplings, toss them with snap peas, drizzle with soyaki sauce, and top with already-shredded carrots and in just a few minutes dinner is made, she said. or take a jar of curry sauce, throw in already-chopped veggies and chicken, simmer 10 minutes, and put it over frozen jasmine rice youve heated up.hibshman likes to keep things healthy by mixing things up. the [frozen] palak paneer is awesome but is high in saturated fat, she said, so i usually have that as family meal and have a smaller portion with the channa masala so youre still getting the flavors you love but not getting all the fat. or shell throw in a couple handfuls of spinach into the last 30 seconds while cooking another favorite, the frozen chicken tikka masala, which doesnt come with any veggies. same with naan, she said. saut kale and make it a naan pizza.the early bird gets the cauliflower gnocchiif youve been to trader joes late afternoon on a weekend you know its a bit of a gong show. the best time to go, gunn said, is first thing in the morning when theyve opened, any day of the week. i discovered this trick by accident; the trader joes i shop at is on the way to my kids school so id drop them off at 7:45 and go when they open at 8. that is the best time to shop. you will have this amazing experience where everything is stocked perfectly, you can be one of few people there, have aisles to yourself, you can take your time.shopping in the evening, on the other hand, is not only a little more frenetic, but may mean the thing you are there to buy is sold out, she said.beyond the two buck chucktrader joes bargain-priced charles shaw wine is legendary. but the great wine values dont stop there. be on the lookout for any bottle marked a trader joes exclusive, gunn said, and the trader joes reserve. she likes their zinfandel ($9.99). even wines you can buy elsewhere are priced well, she said. none of this buy so many bottles and get a discount, here. as with the rest of the store, prices are transparent, with no coupons or complicated sale pricing to contend with.the experts top picks (and mine)so whats on the shopping list for these trader joes super fans? here are their favorites and mine:hibshmans picksfresh basil\"they have a great price on basil you get a ton  its the best deal. if you eat salad every day fresh herbs can give it a flavor boost and make it gourmet.\"10 minute (parcooked) barley and farro\"normally whole grains take a long time to cook and nobody wants to sit around waiting for an hour and a half. these are awesome for meal prep  throw them in salad or soup, or saute in some salad dressing to have as a side item. theyre very diverse to have in your pantry when you want to have whole grain nutrition to sprinkle into meals.\"gunns picksfrozen brown rice\"each pouch has two servings, just pop it in microwave. it has great texture. i tried it ages ago, i remember seeing a woman coming out of the store with 20 boxes of the rice. she said its the best and sometimes they run out for a couple weeks so i always stock up because i cant be without it. i was thinking how good can frozen rice be? but its pretty great.\"frozen croissants\"they are great; theres no croissant you can have outside a parisian bakery thats as good.frozen garlic cubes\"each cube is 1 teaspoon or 1 clove. i always put them in when i make dressing or soup. now i dont have to dirty my garlic press and wash it. and its not like garlic out of a jar that tastes stale.\"\"my picksgluten free granolaim not gluten-free but this bag of goodness is for everyone. i eat it with trader joes 2% greek yogurt for breakfast pretty much every day of my life, and nothing else will do.cauliflower gnocchii keep mentioning this because its so amazing. the first bite tastes a little cauliflowery (not that thats a bad thing) and then something magic happens with the next bites; your palate resets and suddenly its just tender, perfect little pillows of gnocchi. its delicious with pesto and olive oil, cherry tomatoes, and mozzarella balls (all trader joes, of course), or topped with short ribs and a charles shaw red wine sauce.better-for-you recipes13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonighthealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for you11 healthy meals you can make in under 15 minuteswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

life is hectic and often we feel we must carve out time to reflect and feel gratitude. we do yoga, do a little meditation, splurge on retreats and book expensive spa treatments. these can all be wonderful ways to practice self-care, but if we want to sustain and grow happiness in our daily lives, we should incorporate gratitude into every possible moment.over time, we wont even have to think about it, and well see the effects in our frame of mind  and possibly in our brains.people who intentionally cultivate gratitude show greater neural sensitivity in the medial prefrontal cortex, a brain region associated with learning, rational thinking and decision making, says ellie cobb, phd, a holistic psychologist and the director of psychology for thankful, a social enterprise and lifestyle brand focused on gratitude. science shows we can train ourselves to experience thankfulness more often simply by paying attention to our lives differently. attention is like a spotlight in the brain, as whatever we repeatedly bring attention to becomes stronger and brighter over time.marinelle reynolds, a licensed clinical social worker, points to a study by greater good at uc berkeley, finding that participants who practiced gratitude were happier and less depressed. they even found that practicing gratitude can make lasting changes in our brains. practicing gratitude is a skill, you dont have to be born optimistic; or have a life thats been free from problems to be able to use it. little daily routines can be helpful at training your brain to see the world through with a grateful heart.heres a daily routine that does just that:when you first wake upgretchen rubin, a happiness expert and the author of many books, including the happiness project and host of the podcast happier with gretchen rubin, finds that it helps to set reminders or prompts around gratitude.this can be as simple as setting the screensaver or passcode on your phone to be a reminder of gratitude, she says. perhaps your password is your childs birthday, and/or the background image on your phone is a picture of you and your mom. you can change these up to keep refreshing the things you are grateful for.when you leave the housegratitude prompts are also helpful when youre in a hurry in the morning. you can choose practically anything that you see or pass everyday to be your signal for happiness.when youre getting in your car or opening the garage door, use that as a catalyst to think about how happy you are to be going out in the world, says rubin, adding that these same habitual activities or landmarks can inspire a moment of appreciation when youre returning home, too. have a specific threshold that you cross that reminds you of your gratitude.if you arent happy about say, going to work, then just be grateful to be alive, says rubin, adding, you can think about the past. what would my college-self think if i were to know where i am today? look at all ive managed to do.when you sit down for a mealmindful eating is a great way to practice gratitude, but you can take it a step further by following the advice of kristin koskinen, a registered dietitian nutritionist, who recommends keeping a photo food journal, a technique she uses with her clients.like many americans, [my clients] are in the enviable position to choose what they eat. even if they dont love their choices, they can be grateful for the food that nourished their bodies and that  good, bad or indifferent  they were able to make that choice, says koskinen. for those who do keep a food journal, consider using it as a place to note points of gratitude throughout the day. who isnt thankful for a cup of coffee in the morning? you may not love that you ate a piece of birthday cake at a party, but you can savor the blessing of being with friends and family.rubin notes that the traditional religious gesture of saying grace before a meal is one of the oldest forms of daily gratitude  and you dont have to be religious to practice it.at dinner, your family can go around the table and say a few things that they are grateful for, says rubin. its a deliberate practice that cultivates gratitude. it may not work for every family, but it could for yours.at the gym, do a gratitude body scanit can be tough to be thoughtfully engaged when youre doing a tough fitness routine. so take a moment as youre gearing up for a workout to recognize your fortune to be able to workout in the first place with a mental body scan.a simple, fast and effective way to connect with yourself and tap into your inner strength is a body scan, says laura federico, a licensed clinical psychotherapist specializing in helping women learn their desires. start at your feet and work your way up, paying attention to and acknowledging each part of your body. to turn this into a moment of gratitude, thank each part of your body as you work your way up.eliza savage, a registered dietitian, takes a few minutes before her morning run to reflect by her favorite fountain in central park. i find that im thankful most days for the blessing of being able to be healthy and active. im usually super grateful as well to be able to run in central park, which is such a calming environment as opposed to the frenetic streets of nyc.note that you dont have to be able-bodied to give thanks to your body. mouth-painter, producer and app developer peter soby, who is quadriplegic, takes moments to be grateful throughout the day for what his body can do.interactions with strangersmany people have a tendency to apologize for their mere presence in this world, notes chelsea leigh trescott, a certified life coach and the host of the podcast thank you heartbreak.if someone opens the door for them on their way into a coffee shop, theres this natural reflex to say sorry and look down at the floor. instead, incorporate gratitude into these small and daily interactions, she says. rather than apologize and bring the attention toward yourself, place the attention on the person extending themselves and say thank you. not only will this make you feel better, it will make the person in front of you feel good about what theyve done and theyll likely be encouraged to continue it.when you get home from workmany life coaches and therapists recommend writing in a gratitude journal at the end of the day. this is a fine activity for people who take naturally to it, but neither rubin nor myself (for example), enjoy gratitude journaling. we both find it, to use her words, very annoying.if its not for you, then do something else. acts of gratitude should be honest and easy.rubin recommends again marking a threshold that prompts appreciation such as the last stop sign before you get home or wiping your feet on the welcome mat; anything that signals gratitude for having a home to return to.trescott suggests ending your day with a ta-da list, rather than a to-do list.wrap up the day with a new list where you can acknowledge, and therein celebrate, every small and large undertaking that youve accomplished during the day. its a great way of reminding yourself about all you did do during the day, instead of jumping ahead and thinking about all theres left to do.when you tuck in for the night: articulate your love of the bedgetting into bed, especially one that is clean and fluffy, is a wonderful thing after a long day. notice that. really enjoy it. maybe even do as rubin does and articulate the oohs and ahhs of stretching out or curling up. this can actually help you get to bed on time.for many people its a struggle to get to bed. they want to scroll online or binge-watch, says rubin. but its easier if you associate it with luxury and deliciousness. my family pointed out that i often make a funny sound [of relaxation]. now that its been drawn to my attention, i really articulate that sound and tap into gratitude when i get into bed.gratitude is a choice, and thats empoweringbottom line: you have the choice between gratitude and resentment. if you chose resentment, you drive out gratitude. if you choose gratitude you drive out resentment, rubin explains. for the benefit of your body, your brain, your family and everything else in your life, choose gratitude  and be grateful for the choice.more mental health helphow to relax and tap into a zen feeling (almost instantly)how to take a mental health daya daily ritual that will help you de-stress (in just 5 minutes)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

well, well, well. after being locked out of the financial world for centuries, women are now besting men when it comes to investing returns. not only do women consistently earn higher returns than men (by 40 basis points on average), they were also able to add more to their account balances over time (12.4 percent compared to 11.6 percent ), according to a study by fidelity.theres just one problem: despite being aces at investing, women just arent doing enough of it. women overall invest 40 percent less money than men do according to a survey by digital investment platform wealthsimple. and if given the opportunity to do more, many women wouldnt step up. in a recent survey by lexington law  which asked men and women what theyd do with an extra $1,000  men were 35 percent more likely than women to say they would invest the money.this is a problem why, exactly?you may have heard it said that women have to do more with less, but what does that really mean? well, given that the gender pay gap leaves the average woman earning just 80 percent of what a man earns, this means that women will have to save a higher percentage of their salary just to achieve parity with men when it comes to retirement savings. look at it this way: if a man making a $50,000 salary puts 9 percent of his annual income away for retirement, hed have $4,500 saved at the end of the year. but a woman in that same role would only be making $40,000. so even if she put away the same percentage, shed only have $3,600 saved at the end of the year, a whopping $900 less. to top it off, women live an average of five years longer than men, which means their money has to stretch further  a lot further. because of their longer lifespans, women are expected to have 39 percent higher out-of-pocket healthcare costs in retirement than men, which means theyre on track to spend an additional $194,000. its no wonder the wealthsimple research found 47 percent of millennial women consider money the most stressful thing in their lives, compared to 34 percent of millennial men.this is something that doesnt get enough attention, because when women arent investing, it compounds the pay gap dramatically over time  women are on track to end up with less money when they need it, says mike katchen, co-founder and ceo of wealthsimple.and theres more to this than just the numbers. money is choice. money is freedom, katchen says. women who arent investing are losing out on a sense of pride and confidence that comes from reaching financial goals. investing and watching your balances grow over time is empowering. it takes the fear out of the future.so why dont more women do it?historically, the investment world was an old boys club. your advisor would have been a white man, and probably a friend of your fathers, katchen says. when you went in to meet with someone, you would have seen that they rarely used language that resonated with women. it was not an inclusive experience.thankfully, things have changed  but not everyone has gotten the message. today you can invest online, from the comfort of your home, and if you do meet with an advisor, youre going to see that everyone is trying to make things more accessible, katchen says. people know that women control more money than men, and are often the financial decision makers in their household.another reason why women may not be as aggressive as men when it comes to investing is because they are more conservative  they like to hang on to their cash, explains cary carbonaro, cfp and managing director of united capital of ny and author of the \"money queens guide for women who want to build wealth and banish fear\". when i tell my clients they should have an emergency fund, the men will tell me, but i want my emergency fund in the market, and meanwhile the women will have five times the emergency fund they need, sitting in the bank, not doing anything. for some reason, women are afraid of losing money, while men seem to be afraid of losing out by not playing the market.how can we change the narrative?thankfully, theres already been a shift in the market. over the past three years, fidelity has seen the number of women investing their money with the firm grow by 19 percent, to more than 12 million. and it seems women know they need to save more  when fidelity looked at workplace retirement accounts, it saw that women consistently saving a higher percentage of their paychecks than men at every salary level. women saved an annual average of 9 percent percent of their paychecks, compared to 8.6 percent for men. but theres still a ways to go to bridge the divide. here are a few ways to do it.start where you are.  you can get started with $1 per day, or just enough to dip your toes into the water, katchen says. you dont have to hand over every dollar youve ever earned to an advisor. build your portfolio over time and learn that its not scary.dont attempt to boil the ocean.  the industry has been set up to make investing feel scary, katchen says. the old boys club wants you to believe that you need them to tell you what to do with your money, but the basics are simple: dont spend more than you make, save regularly, and get into the markets, thats the essence of what its all about.consider getting help. in my opinion, every woman should be meeting with a financial planner. thats the best way for them to get a handle on their personal situation, carbonaro says. sure you can read books and understand the basic concepts, but until you have a handle on your exact challenges, you cant work out a complete plan.with kathryn tugglehow to save more moneycommon behaviors that stifle our retirement savingshow to create an emergency fund in just 90 days6 things you can and should change in your retirement accounts todayhow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

youve probably at least heard of fortnite  the wildly popular online game that has reportedly earned over $1 billion in in-game purchases. and while the games revenue growth may be slowing, players are still spending plenty of time trying to outlast each other and watching friends, celebrities and top players duel it out on twitch and youtube.along with that popularity comes parental concern about how much time kids are playing, especially now that the school year is in full swing.fortnite season 6 is slated to launch on september 27 (though launch dates have shifted in the past). what does that mean? fortnite runs in roughly 10-week seasons, and each season might bring a new or updated theme or map, as well as new skins (outfits) and emotes (dances) to tempt your son or daughter into more gameplay. if your child bought a season 5 battle pass, theyll likely want another one for season 6.why is fortnite so fun?to encourage your child to strike a healthy balance between fortnite and real life, its important to understand whats driving the games popularity. to find out, i didnt have to look far to find players. my 20-year-old son, mark thurrott, and my 13-year-old niece, kayla-lynn perez, shared their thoughts on what makes the game attractive.its free. my friends and i normally dont all have the same games, so i feel like fortnite is more fun because everyone plays it. we get to know each other better while were playing, perez says.it has broad appeal. almost everyone i know plays fortnite, thurrott says. its become such a big thing that ive even had a professor talking about it in class. teachers can use it as an example and everyone knows whats going on, because everyone has seen it, played it or heard about it.it reaches into pop culture. from celebrating world cup goals and nfl touchdowns to watching rapper drake play online, the game connects with the greater world of entertainment.its accessible. new players are joining all the time, so its unlikely youll finish dead last in the 100-player games. players can band together in duos or squads of four. newer players pick up techniques by watching top players play online. and the cartoon graphics make the violence feel less, well, violent.its not all badwith all that appeal behind it, whats a parent to do? first of all, recognize that fortnite can be a force for good in your family, and i dont mean coaching your kids to victory in the $100 million 2019 fortnite world cup.kids do have to reason through a lot of different scenarios and make decisions about how to best advance in the game, and of course theres eye-hand coordination. there are certain skills that are transferable from video games to life and work after school, says leonard d. reeves, md, a family physician in rome, georgia, and a member of the board of directors of the american academy of family physicians.kids also build camaraderie within and outside the game. we rely on each other when we play, perez says. and talking about the game offline with peers can help kids make social connections.that said, the american academy of pediatrics recommends no more than two hours of screen time a day for kids age 2 and older  and thats from all sources: phones, tablets, computers, video games and tv. and the best way to enforce that limit is to model that behavior ourselves. managing screen time in fortnite is the same as with any other technology, points out keith smith, phd, assistant professor of marketing at northeastern university, who specializes in digital products, social media and online environments.along with screen time, its important to keep an eye on stress levels, too. reeves says, the player really does react in ways as if it were an actual situation. when you really get into the game the adrenaline gets pumping, the heart rate goes up, blood pressure goes up. its good to have some down time, he says. if your child is dealing with stress in other areas of life, limiting play time is especially important. youre adding stress on top of stress, he notes.give it a goreeves recommends that parents play fortnite with their kids. thats a good way to model what were saying. you can say, ok, we can play for so many minutes, then do it and enjoy it. any time parents get involved with their child its a plus for both. once the time is up, move on to another activity, ideally something that requires some exercise or movement.playing even a couple of games with your kids will help you understand what limits can work. since fortnite is a last-player-standing game, arbitrary time limits like 20 more minutes or turning the game off at a certain time wont go over well. a better limit? telling your child they have to take a break after they win, or after two or three losses (wins take longer than losses.)thats how my son mark balances his game time with his studies (or at least thats what he tells me). if i win i stop there. i get that sense of accomplishment and ill do some homework. if i lose ill play one or two more games. i know when i lose ill want to keep playing, but its hard to get a win when there are 100 people playing, he says. you can really get yourself involved to the point where time is flying by.play off what kids wantjust like in the real world, kids want cool stuff. in fortnite that translates to emotes, skins and bling for your weapons and backpack. (you cant buy anything that improves your gameplay.) players can use these items to adorn their avatar or dress their avatar in a certain way to allow them to express their identity, smith says. these items are generally only available for a limited time, so their scarcity makes them coveted.you buy items with an in-game currency called v-bucks, with 1,000 v-bucks costing $9.99. you can purchase items individually, or by a battle pass for the season (950 v-bucks). a battle pass lets you complete challenges in the game to unlock additional rewards.with season 6 starting, you can use the promise of a new battle pass, or v-bucks, to reward behavior you want to encourage in your child. (of course, supervise any online purchases. the games popularity has attracted scammers selling fake v-bucks.) just save some money for next months inevitable request  fortnite halloween costumes.more back-to-school tipsrealistic screen time solutions for kids (and their parents)a better morning routine for kids and parentsback to school lunch gear that makes healthy eating even easierwant compassionate, bully-proof kids? do thiswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

weve all been there: lying in bed after a long day, tired yet wide-awake. our mind is racing. perhaps were worrying about money, work or have been watching too much news.whatever the case may be, trying to fall asleep when your mind wont quit is nothing short of maddening.why do anxious thoughts flare up at night and how can we combat them?at the end of the day, the brain has nothing to keep it busyduring the day, we have dozens of tasks occupying our energy. bedtime brings a halt in activity that can be a difficult transition for our brains.anxiety piles up at night because anxious preoccupation is avoidable when a person is actively using their brain and body to carry them through the day, says dr. kate cummins, a licensed clinical psychologist. when you have a list of to-dos or business meetings to participate in, your thought process is geared towards frontal cortex functioning, which is the judgment, planning and reasoning areas of your brain. once you are finding yourself at the end of your day, your frontal cortex has the ability to relax a bit, shifting gears into things you enjoy or pieces of you that are not connected to higher level functioning, mainly in your emotions and limbic system. when your thoughts start connecting to the emotional part of your cognitive functioning, especially at night, the anxious thoughts or anxious emotion that has been lying dormant all day has a place to go, and becomes the forefront of your thinking patterns.how do we stop this vicious cycle? weve compiled a list of helpful tips in two parts: things you can do while in the grips of anxious thoughts, and things you can do to prevent them, before you go to bed.what you can do when already in bed:identify the root of the anxiety out loud, and fight it with positivityonce youre in the grips of anxious thinking, you have to work at clearing your mind by venting the nervous thoughts and replacing them with positive ones.first, decide what it is specifically that you are focused on that is causing you anxiety, says dr. cummins. is it something that you have control over? is it something in your future that has not yet occurred for you? if so, state the negative thoughts or anxious concerns out loud and then follow them up with alternative and positive thoughts or solutions for your problems.you have to be able to soothe yourself out of the uncontrollable and irrational black or white thinking by combating it with alternative thinking  or it is impossible to avoid, adds cummins.visualize the good things in your lifethe power of your imagination can help get you to a place of ease when youre fretting.visualization of positive events and relationships in your life will help you increase your connection to positive emotions that are also lying around within you, but you have to work at accessing them when the anxious feelings or thoughts have already shown up, says cummins.relax your whole body  including your facecalming your body is integral to calming your mind.joy rains, a certified life coach and the author of \"meditation illuminated: simple ways to manage your busy mind\", recommends a progressive relaxation exercise you can do in bed.lie on your back and bring all your attention to your body, rains says. begin a process of gently tightening and releasing each muscle group, starting with your feet and working your way upwards to the top of your head. hold each muscle as tightly as you can for about five seconds, then release it completely and see if you can notice the difference between the muscle tightened and the muscle relaxed. move onto the next muscle until youve relaxed your entire body. any time your mind wanders, gently bring your attention back to the tightening and releasing of each muscle group.i have found that this exercise helps, but ive been forgetting one crucial part of my body: my face.focus on relaxing ones eyes and face  a common area overlooked when trying to relax, says dr. paul coleman, a psychologist, motivational speaker and the author of finding peace when your heart is in pieces: a step-by-step guide to the other side of grief, loss, and pain. imagine a simple relaxing scene to focus on. keep going back to that image if your mind wanders.make a pledge to accept uncertaintyyour anxiety may be tied to a problem that is understandably keeping you up at night. but you have to let it go if only for this moment.repeat the phrase i accept uncertainty for now. i will take action when action is possible, says coleman. accepting uncertainty is crucial because otherwise one is resisting uncertainty at a time when resisting only adds to tension.what you can do before you go to bed:get your worries on paper (and out of your head)calming an already-stirred up mind can be challenging, so also implement some calming practices before you even get into bed.dr. whitney roban, a clinical psychologist and family sleep specialists number one piece of advice for people suffering from night-time anxiety is to keep a journal where you can write down all those clingy thoughts.when you get these thoughts out of your head and onto paper, there is a good chance they will not infiltrate your mind when its actually time to go to sleep, dr. roban says. many people also like to make lists in their journal of the things they need to do the next day.read, but not on your phonegetting lost a book is beneficial for many reasons, and it can be pivotal to sleep health.reading is a great way to quiet your mind and distract yourself from any anxious thoughts that might creep up at night. when you are engaged in a story, your thoughts are in the moment, instead of worrying about the future, says dr. sal raichbach, a licensed clinical social worker at ambrosia treatment center. on the other hand, the blue light emitted from cell phones does the opposite. even if you turn down the brightness, blue light from led screens interferes with the production of essential brain chemicals like melatonin that tell your body its time for bed.pick up a real book, and i recommend from extensive experience with insomnia, that you pick the densest, dullest tome in your collection.keep the bedroom chilled and completely darkwe may want to consider keeping our bedroom just a tad cooler than we like, and leaving any nightstand lights off. (this means doing your reading in another room.)ensure your bedroom is quiet, comfortable, ventilated, dark and cool, says elaine slater, a psychologist and psychotherapeutic counselor. even a small amount of light in your bedroom can disrupt the production of melatonin and overall sleep.take a tip from your kids with a strict bedtime routine (and a bath)we know how important it is for children to have a nighttime routine as it creates a sensed of structure and security, well the same goes for adults especially if you suffer from anxiety, says bianca l. rodriguez, a psychotherapist and spiritual coach. a bedtime routine can help you self soothe and act as a container for your anxiety. i recommend taking a warm bath or shower before bed to relax your muscles as the state of your body impacts the activity in your mind. imagining frustrations, negative energy or worries flowing down the drain can help you approach sleep feeling more clear and calm.proactively reduce stress during the daysometimes our anxious thoughts are simply the remains of a stressful day.by taking a positive approach to your day and doing as much as you can to eliminate stress, you can create a peaceful night.some of the best ways to deal with anxious thoughts at night are to reduce the stress you have to deal with during the day, says benjamin ritter, a coach and consultant specializing in personal and professional leadership development. you can avoid stressful people, be more open and honest about your feelings, and most importantly plan and strategize areas of your life. reduce the number of decisions you have to make during the day and youll have more left over in your brain bank to deal with stress and anxiety at night.more ways to rest better7 ways to actually get to bed an hour earlier tonight8 sleep mistakes you can fix tonight16 ways to get a better nights sleep without popping a pillwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

ask a runner what his or her favorite season is and odds are it is fall. after slogging through months of heat and humidity, runners embrace with open arms the cool, crisp mornings the season delivers. its a chance to trade in the sweaty hair and tank tops for slightly chilly legs and layers. its no wonder some of the most popular marathons take place in october and november.as much as runners love fall, however, it is inevitable that getting the clothing right on those first few cooler runs takes some trial and error. was it the long-sleeved zip tee or the short-sleeve with arm warmer combo that works best when its 50 degrees? capris or shorts?experienced runners like colorado-based amanda brooks, author of \"run to the finish\", and new england-based allie burdick, freelance writer and author of \"vitatrainforlife\", know the drill well. together they have a combined 35 years of running in their legs and theyve got the summer-to-fall transition down pat.both runners emphasize the need for layering when running during the in between zone of summer and winter. the key is not overdressing, stresses brooks. youre going to start off cool but will warm up as you go, so you want to be able to pull pieces off if necessary.we turned to these two experts for their best tips and fall gear favorites:better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.glovesbrooks has learned over the years that the first thing to feel cold are her hands and thats a common refrain from many runners. your hands are essentially hanging out with little involvement when you run, so its natural that they feel the cold first. i can often start out in short sleeves but need lightweight gloves to keep my hands warm, brooks says. by mile three, im usually pulling them off.look for features like reflective strips to ensure you are spotted by cars on those dark fall mornings, finger grips that allow you to use your phone if you carry one, and wicking features that pull sweat away from your hands. a few to consider:nike miler running gloves, $15.00 at runningwarehouse.comwhat we love: lightweight with dri-fit fabric technology to keep you warm and drysaucony swift gloves for women, $8.99 on amazonwhat we love: reflective logo for visibility and an extra long cuff for layering and warmthnew balance lightweight running gloves, $14.99 on amazonwhat we love: fun colors with anti-microbial properties  includes a touch tip so you can text mid-runarm warmersthis is the piece of gear burdick relies on most come fall. i think i have four different pairs, she says. i like to wear tank tops instead of short sleeves, so this bridges the gap for me when its cooler.there are many options to choose from when it comes to arm warmers and theres wide variability in how light or heavy the material, depending on your preference. some, like one of burdicks favorites, orange mud, offer pockets to stash keys or fuel, and others include thumbholes to help keep them in place. a few to consider:brooks dash arm warmer, $17.00 to 28.00 at brooks runningwhat we love: silicone gripper keeps arm warmers from slipping while you runzemsah limitless compression arm warmers, $30.99 on amazonwhat we love: includes a mesh pocket for your cellphonesaucony swift arm warmers with mitt, $23.84 to $30.00 on amazonwhat we love: soft and stretchy arm warmers come in fun colors with polka dots and stripescapriswhen youre not quite ready for full-length tights, but need something more than shorts, capris close the gap. just about every running clothing maker out there has at least one  and often many more  offerings in this category. i like to combine short sleeves with capris in the fall, says brooks. i like pairs that have room for a phone and arent too heavy in weight.burdick says that one feature trumps all for her with capris and thats fit. i need something that stays put, she emphasizes. theres nothing more annoying than when they slip down or bunch up behind the knees.from three-quarter length to knickers, from traditional black to wild prints, find your sweet spot with these capri options:oiselle pocket joggers, $78 on oiselle.comwhat we love: these capris feature four pockets for your keys, phone, earbuds and moreunder armour speedpocket run crop, $24.77 to $80.00 on amazonwhat we love: fabric is water resistant and features anti-odor technologyheadwearlike arms, your ears are often going to feel the cold before other, more active parts of your body. some runners turn to ear warmers in the fall, while others will choose more substantial, yet lightweight beanies to keep the noggin toasty. my go-to is a beanie that can also transition into a headband or neck scarf, giving me options, says burdick.the options truly run the gamut for every runners preferences, but offerings in headwear include reflective striping, slots for ponytails, and wicking material. consider:asics light-show beanie, $28 on amazonwhat we love: lightweight two-layered beanie with reflective detailssocksfinally, dont forget your feet as you enter fall running season. most running shoes have mesh tops wonderful in the heat of summer, but sometimes a bit too airy in cooler temperatures. i love a lightweight pair of merino wool socks at this time of year, says burdick.socks that offer up warmth without bulk are what you are after. your options can include:smartwool phd run ultra lights, $12.19 to $16.00 at amazonwhat we love: features an achilles tab for extra supportfeetures merino+ ultra light no show tab athletic running socks, $14.95 to $16.99 at amazonwhat we love: designed to insulate feet when wetwith endless gear options for every runner, tis the season to get outside and lay down some miles. throw on those layers, head out the door and embrace the perfect running weather.more workout gearthe best workout shoes for women, according to fitness expertsgear and gadgets that will take your workout to the next levelcreate your own gym with these products under $209 fitness apps that eliminate every workout excusewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

im terrible with money. while ive improved significantly this past year, theres still a lot of room for growth. and the sole reason for my bad money behavior is simple: i lack significant willpower. im the type of person who will sit down and create a fancy, detailed budget that clearly details my cash flow and what i should be spending on certain items, only to completely ignore the outline ive set for myself three days into the month, because, well, i dont have the discipline required to follow through with my financial plans. consequently, its led to multiple overdrafts (and subsequent fees) through the years.thankfully, my financial life has taken a turn for the better in the past six months thanks to a significant bump in income, and there have been no overdrafts of my checking account. in an effort not to ruin the amazing streak i have going on, ive made a promise to myself that i will do everything in my power to build a hefty emergency fund and save money for a multi-city european trip i want to take next summer.so whats helping me keep my word? enter my money buddy: a close and trusted friend who is making sure im actually following my budget, setting aside a certain amount of money every month and cooking more (like i always say i will)  and i do the same for her. the strategy im using to get my life in order is called the financial buddy system, a tried-and-true method thats similar to having a workout partner to help you conquer your health and fitness goals.sharing your money goals with others makes them more real and harder to ignore, explains danielle margulis, a certified financial planner at meyer capital group in new jersey. just like a gym buddy will make sure you dont skip a workout when you just dont feel like leaving your bed in the morning, a money buddy will motivate you and make sure you to stay on track while you work towards hitting certain a financial benchmark, like bulking up an emergency fund.the financial buddy system has the science to back it up, too. in a 2014 study from the dominican university of california, psychology professor dr. gail matthews found that participants who sent weekly updates to a friend on their progress were far more likely to achieve their goals.even if already have a built-in money buddy (e.g. a long-term partner) who already knows everything about your shared personal finances, it can still be beneficial to have another person you can reach out to when youre tempted to make an unwise purchase or need guidance on how to better save money. here are a few tips to make the financial buddy system work for you:choose a financial buddy wiselywhen it comes time to choose a money buddy, you want a person who can handle money matters with a high level of understanding. also, if a friend has the same financial issue as you, they might be a great person to commiserate with  but they wont have the know-how to teach you how to get out of it.you dont want anybody thats struggling with the same thing you are, so if you have a problem with overshopping or credit card debt, you really dont want somebody else who is in the midst of that struggle, says jeff rose, certified financial planner and author of \"soldier of finance: take charge of your money and invest in your future.\" on top of that, you want someone who will be honest with you. you want someone whos going to speak truth to you, adds rose.have honest money conversationsafter all, we live in a society where people routinely skirt around speaking about money openly. money may still be a taboo topic, but it shouldnt be  especially amongst close friends you probably already confide in for other sensitive topics.its important to have those candid conversations with your money buddy about your net worth, your debt, where you hope to be in a couple months or years time, what your spending habits are like and what you hope to change and why. these probing questions will lead to illuminating and insightful discussions, and they will make you more comfortable with being honest and upfront about what you can and cant afford. so, when they invite you to a social gathering and you simply cant pay for it, no worries  if they know whats going on in your life, theyll understand. additionally, these conversations will allow you to teach one another what the respective persons financial triggers are so you help each other steer clear of them whenever they arise, or remind them why a certain purchase would be a financially unwise decision.be accountable for one anotherhow you and your friend hold each other accountable will all depend on your comfort levels and the type of relationship you two have. the person can follow up and ask how you are doing and whether you are getting closer to achieving your goal, says margulis.another method may be to send texts to one another when youve made significant progress, or remind one another when its time to deposit money into a savings account. its really up to the both of you to decide what works best for your situation; just make sure it is something both of you have enough have time for and feel okay doing. for example, if the thought of tracking someone elses cash flow gives you anxiety, you shouldnt share your bank information with one another.ultimately, a money buddy serves as a great source of motivation when youre feeling discouraged or demotivated to work toward your financial goals. theyre your own personal cheerleader, rooting you on when the going gets tough. if youre struggling with personal finances and need an extra push, its worth reaching out to someone you trust to help you change your relationship with money for the better. the world of personal finance can be a minefield, so why not have a support system helping you along the way?more money saving tipshow to save more money this yearsmart money moves to improve your finances in 2019how living in sweden changed the way i think about moneywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

it doesnt take a money expert to know that having sufficient savings is incredibly beneficial (sometimes even life-saving).saving is important because it allows you to have the luxury of being a freelancer, self-employed or salesperson, explains thomas e murphy, the chief executive officer at murphy &amp; sylvest in dallas, texas. life throws everyone financial adversity. those with savings have the ability to deal with those adversities.but despite all the benefits, saving when your income isnt consistent can be a challenge. if youre a freelancer, independent contractor, commissioned salesperson, seasonal worker or even an hourly employee with ever-changing pay thanks to an inconsistent schedule, saving money requires more planning and foresight than being a salaried employee. it isnt as straightforward as automatically transferring a certain amount of each paycheck when you dont have a consistent pay cycle and the amount youre paid varies on a number of factors (how many clients you have, the number of hours you worked, etc.).as the economic landscape of the united states continues to change, this is becoming the reality for more and more people across the country. according to a report from inuit, by 2020, contingent workers (i.e. people who work on a project basis or on contract) will make up more than 40 percent of the workforce.sound like you? for those already in that camp, weve rounded up some steps to make saving as easy as possible when you have an irregular income.1. create your bare-bones budgetbefore we delve into the nitty-grit savings tips, its important to make a bare-bones budget for yourself, even if its completely basic. in order to know how much you can feasibly save each month, you need to first establish what your lifestyle costs are.use a spare hour or two this week to take out a piece of paper (or a blank page on microsoft word or google docs, if you prefer to work digitally) and write down all of your non-negotiable monthly expenditures. these include everything you have to pay for each month no matter, such as rent, food, transportation, childcare, etc.after listing each of these out along with their dollar amounts, add them up and write down the total. the figure you arrive to is the bare minimum you need to make every month to keep your head above water. if you wanted to be even more on the safe side and its financially feasible, tack on an extra 10 percent of that number onto the overall total as a buffer, just in case you overspend slightly or something unexpected arises.once you have a better sense of what your baseline income should be, youll be much more equipped to start a roadmap for your savings goal, or know if a goal is even feasible for you right now based on your financial circumstance. once youve calculated your monthly financial priorities, use the helpful methods to save money even if your pay fluctuates.2. cut down expenses and put aside the money you savedtake a good look at your budget. is it possible to cut down how much youre spending in certain areas, like your food or housing-related costs? consider eating at home more, or reducing your meat consumption. after all, the price of meat usually jacks up the overall costs of meals; a study from the journal of hunger &amp; environmental nutrition found that sticking to a vegetarian diet could save you $750 per year.beyond your food consumption, find ways to downsize your expenses. put yourself on a clothes-spending freeze, or start relying on public transportation whenever you can. consider taking a good luck household bills, too: your landline, digital and magazine subscriptions, streaming services, energy costs, etc.  if its possible, try and decrease your spending whenever you can (even if temporarily), and use the money you save towards savings so you can hit your financial goals faster.3. put extra padding in your emergency fundsince you now know how much you need to cover the basics and survive every month, whenever you make more than that amount, simply put all or some of it away in savings. start by moving that surplus money to a savings account after all of your non-negotiable expenses have been paid for each month. of course, you want to be absolutely sure that youve earned above your baseline before you save anything. that way, you dont have to worry that living beyond your means, since your necessities have been accounted for.it is critical to have an emergency fund/cash reserve [you] can draw from if one month [you] do not make enough income to cover required expenses, suggests todd i. youngdahl, a certified financial planner and managing partner at washington wealth advisors in virginia. i recommend building nine months of monthly expenses for self-employed or freelance workers versus the normal three to six months of expenses for salaried employees.4. automate savings based on last quarters incomeif youve been consistently making more than your essential expenses for the past couple of months and expect it to remain that way, automating your savings is a painless and easy way to save a certain amount of money every couple of weeks or month. but, since your monthly income might still fluctuate, take stock of what you can afford to save regularly. every month or few months, set up a recurring transfer from your checking to your savings account for however much will be doable for the next period. the actual amount you save depends completely on how much you estimate you can reasonably set aside, based on your previous earning trends.5. utilize a spare-change savings appthanks to the digital age, there are many apps available to help make all facets of your life easier, including managing your finances. if youre not in the position to automate your savings or limit your monthly expenses, try using an app like digit or qapital, which can be set up to track your cash flow and automatically move money into a safe savings account for you every so often (as long as you have money flowing in and can afford to). apps like these are a hassle-free way to build emergency savings without requiring any effort on your part beyond downloading the app and linking a bank account.get more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayshow stashing receipts saved one man over a $1,000 in 7 monthswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram

quick! unexpected company is coming and your house is a wreck. you only have a few minutes to do damage control and dont even know where to start. what do you do first?there are so many scenarios where this can happen, said rachel hoffman, author of \"unf*ck your habitat: youre better than your mess\" and an upcoming guided journal for less mess, less stress and a home you dont hate. she shared the the 20/10 method that can change the way you clean your house with us, and is back with emergency cleaning tips. (and wait for it, what you could do instead.)especially if youre a renter and your landlord needs to get in, or apartment maintenance, she said, you may need to make some fast decisions. or even just i walk my dog and i run into my neighbors or somebody wants to come in and borrow a book, [its like] omg can i let this person in? or maybe youve even given yourself enough time to prepare for a visit, and then youve just kind of left it till the last minute and youre like, this is happening now, she said.make that person a relative (hi, mom!) and it can feel even more calamitous if the house isnt ship-shape. i personally scramble to pick up dog toys and wipe dog slobber off the front door and foyer window if someones coming, but i thought there had to be a quick cheat-sheet for the one thing to clean in every room when you have no time. hoffman has us covered. here are this experts top tips when the clock is ticking.where to start?always start with where youre anticipating youre going to be spending the most time, hoffman said. and dont worry about the spaces they wont see. if its an emergency drop-in guest, you can shut your bedroom door unless its a particular kind of social call. but regular hosting, private rooms, just close the doors because if youre dealing with limited time you dont need to get distracted.kitchensince the kitchen tends to be where everyone congregates (at least at my house) lets start there. your mission here is to clear surfaces, said hoffman.and think in terms of stashing things quickly. toss anything thats trash, and if any dishes are sitting out? get them into the dishwasher, or in an extreme emergency, throw them under the sink.nobodys going to look there, she said. (although i wouldnt be too sure; while showing neighbors our recently renovated kitchen after bumping into them on the sidewalk, one opened the cabinet door in the island  only to see the pan id used to make my lunch id stashed there!) now, wipe down those cleared counters, and move to the next room.living room and dining roomsame as in the kitchen, youre going to feel like everything is a lot cleaner if your flat surfaces are cleared, hoffman said. in the living room were talking coffee table or side tables, and of course the dining table in the dining room. those are the surfaces that tend to accumulate the most clutter and make the room look messier no matter what, she said.the good news is, it may have been a mess for a month and you figure anything that takes that long to get that messy will take a long time, she said, but for the most part you can deal with one of those surfaces in 15 minutes max.dont worry about sweeping or vacuuming, she said. thats not the most immediate indication of clean or dirty.bathroomyou definitely want to give your bathroom a good once over, hoffman said, because you never know when someone is going to use it. want some more bad news? people are alone, the lighting is good, theres nothing to distract you. people look around in bathrooms, its human nature.were going to cheat here because this is more than one thing. you have to start with giving your toilet a quick cleaning because, really, its a toilet. the same as the other rooms, clear the counters and wipe them, then swiffer the floor.now, to keep prying eyes away, close the shower curtain as much as you can because you dont have time to get into a deep clean of your tub, hoffman said.entrywaydont forget the very first thing guests will see. hoffman suggests you walk outside your house and walk back in. see what you notice, she said. if youre living with things day in and out, theres a chance theyre just part of the landscape for you. if you walk in with fresh eyes, theres dust bunnies in the corner, cobwebs hanging from the light fixture.bedroomok, say your guest will be seeing your bedroom. in your rush, what should you do there?oh god, put your clothes away, hoffman said. for almost everybody. the mess most of us have is laundry where its not supposed to be. you have that chair or the \"floordrobe\", its been collecting for weeks or  im not judging  months. you think its going to take forever to deal with but [with three loads to put away] i timed myself and it was like 14 minutes. and of course, no matter what else, make the bed, she said. it doesnt have to be complicated, pull up the duvet, smooth it out. it calms the look of the room once its done.fake it till you make itive seen a tip on an airbnb hosting advice website that suggested hosts simply spray cleaning product into the air if they dont have time to clean. as a superhost myself with a multi-page cleaning checklist, im aghast. but for just your own home? hey, why not?it does work because we have such strong associations with smell to trick our brains, hoffman said. if youre concerned about how [your company] is going to look at you as whether youre clean, then little shortcuts like giving a quick spritz can come in handy. method brand bathroom cleaner smells amazing. i will fully admit  just spraying it makes me feel better even if im not scrubbing it down. if its an extended visit you want to do the real thing, of course, she said, but for a quick visit theres nothing wrong with a little cheat.and its not just a cheat. when it comes to dealing with time constraints, the appearance of clean is probably more important [than actually being clean] because its going to put you at ease, hoffman said. plus, most of us, after visitors were a little more motivated to go ahead with the deep cleaning stuff because its the things you noticed as you were scrambling but didnt get to.bonus roundif you have time for just one more little thing, make it this: a trick if its not as clean as it could be is to put out fresh towels in the bath and kitchen because that makes things look more put together, hoffman said. those are tiny little touches that may not register, but fresh towels equal a clean place.skip the pardon my mess routineyouve probably heard it  and said it  a million times: pardon my mess. im so sorry, the house is a wreck. its pretty deeply ingrained in most of us, hoffman said. we basically think everyone is always judging us. im a big fan of not having people in my house who will judge me but i still apologize. i wish we didnt have to.well what if we just didnt? i read an advice article years ago that suggested we just stop drawing attention to the mess and making everyone feel awkward, because of course the guest has to counter with a rebuttal that its not messy. ive mostly followed that advice and its been so freeing. except when my house was in literal shambles during renovations, i dont mention whatever state of cleanliness it happens to be in. if visitors dont like dog hair, chew toys on the floor, or evidence that i work from home, they probably just shouldnt visit.the comment though, is so reflexive for people, hoffman said. maybe we can change the expectation that were constantly apologizing for the way we live. theres a lot of shame and a lot of guilt around cleaning in our minds.heres a thought. how about not beating yourself up if you dont have time? she said. because most people are honestly not as judgmental of ourselves as we are. we hold ourselves to a much higher standard. nobodys being as mean about yourself as you are.maybe instead of cleaning we have a glass of wine and relax? honestly, she said, thats ideal.more cleaning tipshow often you should clean your home, according to sciencethe best spring cleaning products, according to the proswhy the 20/10 method can change the way you cleanhow often to replace everything in your bathroom, bedroom and kitchenwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

despite chronic pain in her right leg, u.s. air force master sergeant kim kaminski lost 40 pounds. all it took, she says, was switching her diet to six small meals a day and a big change in attitude.a softball injury and car accident in 2014 left the airwoman with such severe damage in her right leg that the nerve had to be removed.kaminski, now a security forces supervisor at al dhafra air base in the united arab emirates, says the injury was frustrating and painful.i was in an enormous amount of pain, kaminski tells nbc news better.once an avid runner who played softball, basketball and soccer, kaminski says, i couldnt do any of that. doctors told her she would never be the athlete she once was.after that, i was really depressed, she says. kaminski, who lived in new jersey at the time, said she relied on her family, friends and coworkers to help her move around.stuck on the sofa all day long and feeling down in the dumps, kaminski recalled how she would eat whatever i wanted.whatever i was craving, i would eat, kaminski says, which probably wasnt the best thing when you werent moving around. slowly, she began gaining weight.after her injury healed, she got a civilian job with a local sheriffs department in 2015, but got into another car accident that fractured bones in her face and right ankle.and then after that i was like this is enough  i really need to start getting myself back to where i was, kaminski said. and i really started pressing hard.six small meals a daykaminski said she used to eat two or three big meals a day. after meeting with a nutritionist, she switched to consuming smaller, healthier meals six times a day.i would normally just eat like three big meals a day, she said, or a lot of times i would miss breakfast, honestly, because i was never a morning person.kaminski ate breakfast, lunch and dinner  plus three snacks that consisted of all the macro nutrients she needed (protein, carbs and fats), which she tracked through an app on her phone:breakfast: egg whites with potatoes, turkey bacon, [or] pre-made breakfast muffins with turkey bacon, egg whites, and vegetablessnack: fruit smoothie with protein powdersnack: hard boiled eggs (whites only)lunch: a healthy fat like an avocado with chicken or turkey or lean bison or beefsnack: almonds and a protein shakedinner: lean protein like salmon, poultry, or lean beef with vegetableswhereas her former diet of two to three big meals would leave her feeling hungry, she says, consuming smaller meals throughout the day curbed her hunger and helped regulate her metabolism.youre always eating something, she says, so your body is always working.start in small stepskaminski says she lost a total of 40 pounds since 2015.but its a slow process, she acknowledged. you cant do everything at once because, if you do, then your body is going to crash.before you completely change your diet or dive into an intense exercise regimen, she recommends easing your way into a slow and steady routine. for example, begin with slowly eliminating the most unhealthy foods from your diet, like soda, she says.after her injuries healed, the sergeant eased her way into a five day-a-week 30 minute, nonstop cardio routine. once her body adjusted to the cardio, she says, she slowly introduced weight lifting into her routine. then she gradually began power lifting, she says.space things out and take it one thing at a time, kaminski advises.when things get hard, remember where you used to bein june, the sergeant proudly completed the militarys 25k ruck march, a march that required her to carry 25 lbs on their back across a grueling 15 mile stretch. she describes it as her biggest accomplishment.while the she still deals with chronic leg pain, she says she feels awesome, but acknowledges that some days are a lot harder than others.some days i dont want to work out, but then i look back and i think about how miserable i used to be sitting on the couch and not be able to do anything, kaminski recalls, and it wasnt easy to get up and be like alright, this is it.more weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

i met my husband, patrick, on okcupid a little over five years ago, shortly before tinder launched and the yea or nay swiping aspect became so popular. i imagine that if i were single now, i may not exactly prosper with this model of dating that fosters both feelings of instant gratification and instant rejection.id likely incorporate a slow-dating approach, a trend that has been picking up steam. when i first heard the term, embraced by dating apps like once and hinge, i thought it meant to date, well, slowly, perhaps even taking the old-fashioned approach of delaying a first kiss; but its actually about dating mindfully and meaningfully  and not necessarily by sacrificing momentum.slow dating isnt necessarily slow, but it is thoughtfuli define it as a more thoughtful approach to dating, hinge founder and ceo justin mcleod says. weve noticed a trend towards helping people find more meaningful connections for some time now. we do this by designing profiles that show off what makes you, you. and we encourage you to put yourself out there, just a little, by liking a specific part of someones profile. its not only a natural way to start a conversation, but it helps cut through the small talk so you can get out on a date faster. its clear singles are craving [this] more thoughtful approach. in the last year, hinges active member base has increased 400 percent.sara konrath, phd, a social psychologist and consultant for okcupid, likens slow dating to other mindfulness approaches weve implemented in our daily lives.just like the slow food movement is a reaction to cheap and unhealthy fast food, the slow dating movement is a reaction to quick and meaningless hookups that can be made easy by dating apps, she says. its based on a desire for people to slow things down, get to know one another without so much pressure and focus on high quality connection and closeness. slow dating also often means that the sexual intimacy stage of the relationship comes later, after getting to know one another.great sex or great politics? more okc users prefer the lattermelissa hobley, cmo of okcupid tells nbc news better that users are increasingly showing interest in learning what a person values versus what a person looks like, particularly in our politically divided climate.[our question] do you prefer same politics or great sex? used to always [elicit the response] great sex, but its changed now, and weve seen a jump in political terms skyrocket, says hobley, noting that the trend has been strongest among millennials. people are saying, i dont want to know if you have a six-pack, i want to know if you care about climate change. young women particularly are saying do not message or swipe right if you dont [share my politics]. one of our questions we ask users is about voting and most younger people do not want to be shown someone who didnt vote in the last election or who is not registered for midterm elections.quality over quantity combats dating burnoutslow dating typically entails limiting how many potential love interests youre engaging with. this can be beneficial when youre feeling the effects of swipe thumb, dating app fatigue or even burnout, notes christie tcharkhoutian m.a., mft, a licensed marriage and family therapist.these are all terms that have developed out of a response to the backlash that dating apps have created by providing an overwhelming number of potential choices, she says. our brain on dating apps has created a binary process of choosing the right person, where you have a few seconds to decide (based on a first impression of a few photos) whether you will swipe right or left. this is more of a reflex rather than a process that utilizes cognitive decision-making to see if a three-dimensional person is someone you can interact with over coffee or drinks, and if there is a connection. dating apps, if not approached thoughtfully, can create a situation where people are overwhelmed by the number of choices, and as science tells us, when stuck in the paradox of choice we often have a hard time choosing anybody.some people do prefer and thrive with this reflexive dating, but many prosper when they have fewer matches and an opportunity to humanize and be more reflective about the process, says tcharkhoutian. slow dating is a way to be more engaged in the process of dating rather than becoming a consumer in a buffet of people where you can pick and choose how much you like people than believe that a relationship is a co-created process between two imperfect people, in which you will change and improve with your partner. when trying to find your match, quality over quantity can sometimes be the name of the game, and what youll hopefully discover with the fewer quantity of people, is that every single person has value and is quality and its just a matter of discovering whats underneath the surface to see if they are someone whose internal qualities are compatible with yours.slow dating is ideal for the busy person who knows what they wantsaiyda shabazz, a 32-year-old writer and single mother of a five-year-old, didnt date for years because she was simply too busy to deal with it. she decided to start dating again recently, and found that a slow dating approach quelled her anxiety around diving into the world of dating apps.i havent been in the dating game for nine years, so i was super nervous and taking it slow really helped me feel less overwhelmed, says shabazz, who intentionally swiped on very few people, took breaks between doing so, and went out with just three people, one of whom she is now happily dating.dr. elizabeth cohen, a clinical psychologist, would likely praise shabazz on her selectiveness and taking the time to get to know someone before sacrificing time on dates. its a confident attitude that every dater can learn from, and honestly, one i wish id embraced in my dating years. before meeting my now husband on okcupid, i went through dates with virtual strangers like a mad woman, desperate to show to myself and the world that i was dating, i was trying, i was normal.i wound up wasting a lot of my and others time just to fill my dance card and mask my insecurities about being alone.when someone is obsessed with dating, with meeting someone, i can tell theyre clinging to it as something that will make everything better, says dr. cohen. take a one-month vacation and go on dates with yourself. if youre afraid of being alone, find out where that comes from. know yourself as well as you can.slow dating means having space and room to think about what is going on, cohen adds  a luxury you arent guaranteed when going on a ton of dates with a ton of different people. slowness is part of every piece of mental health. its about not rushing through life to avoid difficult feelings.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimehow the simple act of holding hands brought this couple closer than everwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

morning routines can be a struggle even for those who are naturally morning people. if youre facing a busy schedule and/or managing a family, the impetus to get up and get going stat can be extreme  but for an optimal day of productivity and positivity, its best that we take some time to ground ourselves and start the day on a good note.how much time? while it does depend on how early you rise and what sort of relaxation methods you prefer, weve determined, through conversing with mental health experts and life coaches, that a half-hour should do the trick.weve broken this 30-minute routine into two, five- and 10-minute intervals. heres what to do, starting with the moment you open your eyes to get your day on the best possible track. you can do this all before a workout, shower and breakfast, or build these activities around those essentials.first two minutes: positive thoughts and no phonemany of us (myself included) use our phones as our alarms. thats fine  so long as you can resist the urge to read any missed messages or emails once youre awake. if not, get an old-school alarm and keep your phone elsewhere. its critical that youre not distracted at all during this routine.that split second when you wake up counts the most, because right then and there you can set the tone of your new day for how you want it to be, says jacqueline pirtle, an energy healer, mindfulness-happiness coach, and author of 365 days of happiness: because happiness is a piece of cake. your first thought should be something like, this will be and is already the best day ever, or i am healthy, abundant, successful and happy, or life loves me, and so on.these thoughts may not come automatically to you in the morning, so try rehearsing them while falling asleep the night before. next five minutes: mindfulness techniques and deep breathingnext, implement some mindfulness techniques to clear your mind. this can be in the form of meditation, prayer or affirmations of gratitude.i recommend that all my patients engage in some sort of meditation or prayer first thing in the morning, says dr. nicole bernard washington, a board certified psychiatrist and the chief medical officer at elocin psychiatric services. the benefit is to clear your thoughts and allow you to start the day with a clear mind.gratitude affirmations are a great way to start the day as well, washington says. by starting the day making gratitude statements you allow yourself to focus on the positive things in your life. in a world that tends to highlight the negative, starting your day off on a positive note can have positive effects on your mood.you can also incorporate breathing exercises to help achieve clarity.while laying in bed, breath in through your nose, hold it for five seconds and then release the air through your mouth, instructs dr. erlanger earl turner, a licensed clinical psychologist and assistant professor of psychology at the university of houston-downtown. repeat these steps several times. it should help to relax the mind and body.spend five minutes journaling, which can also be done in bedthe urge to pick up your phone or laptop is probably powerful now, but hold off for just another five minutes and instead take to pen and paper (ideally you should keep a journal on your nightstand).christie tcharkhoutian, m.a., mft, a licensed marriage and family therapist finds writing upon waking to be beneficial.some brain research suggests that this practice is helpful for brain integration because it helps to integrate parts of the brain that involve linguistic and creative capabilities, setting a tone of creativity and balance for the rest of the day, she says. writing something positive  such as three things you are grateful for or a positive intention for the day  can help to improve mood throughout the day. our dream life and subconscious work overtime in our sleep and channeling that stream of consciousness as soon as you wake up into writing helps to feel more connected and mindful throughout your day. writing continues that creative flow from your dream life into your day as opposed to automatically waking up and looking at your phone, reading and consuming information which can put a creative block and interfere with your ability to stay present throughout the day.if journaling isnt your thing, listen to positive messages you recordedjournaling may be a practice youre not into, or prefer to do at night. if either is the case, consider making a recording of yourself reading daily affirmations aloud and listen to them instead.to implement daily affirmations into your morning and set an intention by reading them aloud to yourself, or listening to a recording of yourself reading them every morning, says tcharkhoutian. if positive statements about your identity are replaying like a broken record, they will combat the negative beliefs that can creep in and sabotage your day.spend 5 minutes writing down the essential tasks for the dayonce you do the aforementioned practices, you can get down to the business of the day  but before your mind starts buzzing with to-dos, use these five minutes to itemize, prioritize and be super specific with what you want to achieve today in list form.dont just [write] check emails. write down, check 20 emails in 30 minutes from x to x time, says stephanie lincoln, a licensed mental health counselor, certified fitness trainer and the founder/ceo of fire team whiskey. we all have hundreds of items on our to-do lists, and this helps us prioritize just five essentials for that day to not feel so overwhelmed.make sure your essential tasks are focused on your current priorities, adds lincoln. we all suffer from shiny object syndrome; the thing that is the loudest and most flashy is the thing we will focus our attention on, but step back and ask yourself, is this really a priority, or is it just the most appealing one i want to work on because its shiny? identify the one task you are dreading the most and make that #1 on your list. get that done first because most likely, the most dreaded task is usually the most important one.check off each item as you go through the day so that later you, you can relish the accomplishments.ten minutes: time with family (including pets)youve now devoted 17 minutes to grounding yourself, meaning you have 12 minutes left. now is the time to enjoy quality time with family.set aside ten minutes for family, advises forrest talley, ph.d, a clinical psychologist. parents with young children will find this challenging in that they are busy getting them into their school clothes, organizing school lunch bags, etc. but for those with teens, or empty nesters, this can be a great time to connect before the business and stress of the day take on a momentum of their own.if you have pets, make them a part of this time.the bond between [pet] owners and their pets is often very strong, and a source of significant happiness, says talley. including a little quality time in the morning insures this bond is not neglected.what to do with those two extra minutes? you shouldnt have a problem using them now that you can get your phone back.more tips for a better morning9 things to do this morning to make your whole day more productive12 tips to master your kids morning routine and eliminate stressthe productivity hack that allowed me to accomplish more in less time15 protein-packed breakfasts that can help curb cravings9 really good reasons to exercise early in the morningwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

freezing your files at the big three credit reporting agencies  equifax, experian and transunion  is one of the best ways to protect yourself from financial identity theft. starting sept. 21, everyone can do it  for free.until now, it could cost as much as $10 to freeze your file at each credit bureau, depending on your age and where you live. that same fee applied to unfreeze or thaw the file, if you wanted to apply for credit. and then, you had to pay again to refreeze it.in the wake of the last years equifax mega-breach of nearly 148 million personal records, congress passed a law that requires the credit bureaus to offer this important fraud protection free of charge. now, you can freeze and thaw and refreeze your account as many times as you want, and it wont cost anything.were very hopeful consumers will take advantage of this new legislation, said eva velasquez president and ceo of the non-profit identity theft resource center. this is one of the most proactive consumer-protection steps people can take.a recent national survey by nerdwallet, a financial advice website, found that only 10 percent of americans froze their credit files after the equifax breach.even though people say they are very concerned about their financial security, theyre not actually taking steps to protect themselves, said kimberly palmer, nerdwallets personal finance expert. some people feel theyre just too busy or its too much effort, or it could be the cost that was holding people back.seventy-five percent of the 2,005 adults responding to the nerdwallet survey said theyd be likely to freeze their credit when a breach involved their information, if doing so were free.how does it work and what will it do?a security freeze restricts access to your credit file, to prevent anyone from opening new accounts or taking out loans in your name  even you. to apply for credit, youll need to thaw the account. its also important to know that:a credit freeze does not impact current financial relationships, so it does not affect your existing credit card accounts, loans or mortgage.a freeze does not hurt your credit score.to secure your credit files, youll need to request a freeze at each of the three bureaus. after verifying your identity and answering some challenge questions, youll be issued a pin for that account that must be used to freeze or thaw it.keep in mind: the credit bureau websites are designed to sell you products and services, so use these direct links:equifax free security freezeexperian security freeze centertransunion free freezethe new law also requires a quick response to your requests:ask for a freeze online or by phone and the credit reporting agency must put the freeze in place no later than the next business day.if you want to lift the freeze, that has to happen within an hour.equifax, experian and transunion told nbc news better theyve prepared for the new law by making it easier for people to initiate a freeze or thaw.a freeze may not be for everyone, but we want to make the process as simple as possible, said rod griffin, director or public education at experian. with the problem of identity theft today, its critical that people be engaged in the process and know whats going on with their credit report.transunion is the only bureau to provide an app to control the process. using the free mytransunion app for both android and ios devices, you can instantaneously freeze or thaw your account. you can even schedule an automatic refreeze, so you dont forget to do it.we want people to feel like they have control and can protect themselves, but we also want to take any friction out of this process for consumers, said john danaher, president of consumer interactive at transunion.note: if youve already frozen your files, theres nothing to do. the bureaus will simply stop charging you. if you have a fraud alert in place (not as robust as a freeze) that will now be extended for one year from the date it was initiated.new law makes it easier to protect your kidsmost children dont have credit files, but they can still be targeted by identity thieves who want to use that unblemished credit history for their nefarious purposes. more than 1 million children in the u.s. were id theft victims last year, resulting in losses of $2.67 billion, according to the 2018 child identity fraud study by javelin strategy &amp; research.congress made it easier for parents and guardians to protect minors by taking a patchwork of state laws making the process uniform and free for everyone. you can do this online by going to the equifax, experian and transunion websites.a freeze vs. a lock  and what about credit monitoring?transunion and equifax offer a free credit lock, which is similar in many ways to a security freeze. consumer advocates contacted by nbc news better all recommend going with the freeze, now that its free.credit freezes are a right mandated by law and not conditional on terms set by companies the way credit locks are, said mike litt with u.s. pirg. your rights as a consumer are on firmer ground with credit freezes.if you sign up for the free credit lock at equifax or transunion, your information can be used for marketing purposes. they cant do that with a freeze, litt said.dont confuse a freeze  or even a lock  with credit monitoring which looks for potential signs of fraudulent activity.a security freeze is the most effective measure you can take to prevent identity theft, said chi chi wu, staff attorney for the national consumer law center. if you get credit monitoring for free, it doesnt hurt to combine it with a freeze, but credit monitoring doesnt prevent identity theft  it simply alerts you to a problem. it doesnt keep the horse from getting out of the barn; all it does is tell you the horse is gone.a freeze isnt a silver bulleta security freeze is an important fraud-fighting tool, but it doesnt stop all forms of identity theft, just the creation of new financial accounts in your name. youre still vulnerable to existing account fraud, where a crook steals your credit or debit card number and starts buying things.thats why you need to do several other things to protect yourself:check your bank and credit card accounts at least once a week and look for any suspicious activity.set up alerts on your bank and credit card accounts to give you real-time notification of whats happening to your accounts.get your free credit reports once a year and check for errors or anything questionable.monitor your credit score for unexplained and dramatic changes that could signal fraud.more credit tips5 ways your credit score influences your lifeheres what happens when you miss your credit card paymenthow to pay off credit cards using the debt avalanche methodwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

with the school season back in full swing, its time to start thinking about fueling young minds with healthy snacks. you can always count on fruits and veggies as smart bets, but between sports practice, piano lessons and other after school activities, a packable, non-perishable snack is often needed. before gearing up for your next grocery haul, here are some tips to keep in mind:look for whole food ingredients. the healthiest snacks contain predominantly whole food ingredients, such as fruits, vegetables, whole grains (like oats, whole wheat, or sorghum), beans (such as chickpeas or lentils), nuts or seeds, eggs, and others.limit or avoid foods made with artificial sweeteners, preservatives, and flavors. though the fda deems these safe in amounts normally consumed, theyre often a sign that a product is overly processed, and these ingredients dont bring benefits to growing bodies.keep an eye on added sugars. even seemingly healthy snacks, like granola bars and yogurts, may contain excessive amounts of added sugars. food labels list sugar in grams; a teaspoon is about four grams. for the most part, you want to be in the range of a teaspoon or less. one more pointer: some products designed for kids are smaller in size than a comparable product on a nearby shelf. i spotted one popular granola bar brand with a kids bar that listed 5 grams of added sugar  not too bad until i recognized that the bar was only 23 grams in weight. the same flavor of the adult-size bar was also 5 grams of sugar, but its about 50% larger. so proportionally, the adult-size bar packs in less added sugar, and the size is suitable for children and adults.if you want to skip the label reading or need some snack inspiration, here are some of the healthiest snacks to toss in your childs backpack. you can find most of these in your larger grocery chains and superstores like target and walmart  or you can buy in bulk from retailers like amazon.better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.rxbar kids$5.50 for 5,target, or $16.72 for 10 bars, amazonyou can feel good about packing this clean ingredient bar for your kids. with no added sugar and ingredients like almonds, dates, egg whites, and chocolate, its the bar youd make at home  if you had the time. instead, score them at the store and tide over hungry tummies with 7 grams of protein and 3 grams of fiber. select from several fruity and chocolatey flavors, including a perennial favorite, chocolate chip.made good granola minis$18.94 for pack of 20, amazoncertified vegan, nut free, and gluten free, these wholesome bites are perfect for kids with allergies or food sensitivitiesas well as those who just like tasty nibbles. since the bites are suitable for so many kids, theyre a great choice when youre the classrooms or teams designated snack parent. available in five flavors kids (and adults!) crave.hippeas organic chickpea puffs$2.99 per bag, target or $18.99 for 6 bags, amazonwhen your kids demand cheddar puffs and you demand good ingredients, this will become your go-to healthy snack. these white cheddar puffs happen to be soy free, nut free, dairy free, and gluten free, but youll be stashing them in your childs school bag because theyre also decidedly delicious! though they taste like popular cheese puffs, theyre made mostly of chickpea flour (instead of the more common refined corn flour), which brings benefits like 3 grams of fiber and 4 grams of protein. hippeas 1.5 ounce snack packs are available in three varieties: vegan white cheddar, bohemiam barbecue, and siracha sunshine (for kids who like bold flavors).just the cheese$23.89 for 12 two-bar packs, amazonas the label implies, this simple snack contains just one ingredient: cheese. but the crunchy baked bars and bites dont require refrigeration so theyre perfect for toting to school and activities. its a great snack for active kids who need to refuel after a game or meet. choose from five kinds of bites and three kinds of bars.rhythm superfood carrot sticks$22.79 for a pack of four, amazonthese crispy dried (not fried) carrot sticks pack 11 grams of fiber in a bag. i wouldnt call them a replacement for baby carrots, but theyre certainly a worthwhile alternative. the 29 grams of carbohydrates are the perfect brain fuel for an afternoon of homework. available in three kid-friendly flavors.quinn pretzels$13.29 for three 7-ounce bags, amazongluten free, whole grain pretzels arent easy to come by so i was pleased to find these, which are made with whole grain sorghum and brown rice flours. though parents will appreciate the nourishing, organic ingredients, kids will love their authentic pretzel taste and crunch. since these come in multi-serve packages, youll want to have a re-usable re-sealable snack bag, such as those from stasher bags, to pack up your pretzels.pressed by kind $14.22 for 12, amazonif your child is a fan of fruit leathers and roll ups, this would be a better way to go. unlike ordinary fruity snacks, its made with real fruit (such as cherries and apples) and no added sweeteners. the carbs in these bars make them a good choice before an active afternoon or during a study break. choose from five fun flavors.bare apple and banana chips7.49 for a pack of seven .53 ounce bags, target or $22.79 for six 2.7 ounce bags, amazonthough there are several brands offering freeze-dried fruit, bare fruit chips stand out because their apple and banana snacks are crunchier than the competition. both the apples and the bananas are available in cinnamon as well as unflavored, and both fruits supply a good source of fibera nutrient most kids fall short on.angies boom chicka pop sea salt popcorn$2.78 per bag, walmart.com, $25.90 for a case of four, amazoncrunchy snacks, like potato chips, are often lacking in nutrients, but 100% whole grain popcorn is an exception. one study found that this snack standby has 15 times more protective plant compounds than whole grain tortilla chips. note that popcorn is only as healthful as the toppings added to it, with some packaged flavored varieties containing too much sugar to be considered good for you. this one skips the added sugar and adds a touch of salt, and it comes in bags perfectly portioned for school-aged kids over five.more back-to-school tipsback-to-school lunch gear that makes healthy eating even easierhow to stand up to bullies, according to johnny weirhow to plan a weeks worth of healthy lunches for under $20parents, stop working so hard: kids can do these back-to-school tasks themselveswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the anticipation of a high stakes negotiation  be it for a new car, lower rent, a better mortgage or an increase in salary  can be really nerve wracking. this may be because your adrenal glands actually register risk before youre conscious of it, releasing adrenaline and sparking a fight-or-flight or relaxation reaction driven by your autonomic nervous system, says tara swart, neuroscientist, medical doctor, leadership coach and author of \"neuroscience for leadership: harnessing the brain gain advantage (the neuroscience of business).\" the balance of testosterone and cortisol biases your decision-making system either towards risk avoidance and fear (cortisol), or confidence (testosterone), she explains.so how can we use knowledge about the inner workings of our brains to better equip ourselves to negotiate successfully? we turned to neuroscience to find out how to work with our brains for the best possible outcome.1. dont project an outcomein prepping for a negotiation, you might feel inclined to try and predict a reaction, but theres no real way to do that. the best and worst thing for a human nervous system is another human, says lisa feldman barrett, neuroscientist, distinguished professor of psychology at northeastern university and author of \"how emotions are made: the secret life of the brain\".the best and worst thing for a human nervous system is another human.she points to the neuroscience of affect, which is about how your brain conjures simple feelings (pleasant, unpleasant) from sensory changes inside the body. were social animals. we regulate each others nervous systems without even realizing it, she explains. when we get along, our heart rates and our breathing synchronize. if we arent having a smooth interaction, or we have an ambiguous interaction, we experience a dysregulation of the nervous system, an increase of arousal and anxiety, and we can be stressed. this is what sets us up to seriously care what people think, which you want to avoid while negotiating.instead, it can help to depersonalize the process by remembering how the brain works. what someone thinks about you is really a bunch of electrical signals in your brain, she explains. people dont read each other well. brains just guess what body movements mean. in a negotiation, its important to know that no ones reading you  your brain is guessing and theyre doing the same to you, she says.2. psych yourself into itwhen anticipating a negotiation, it helps to keep the process in perspective. willingness is the best place to start. realizing the worst thing that can happen is a no is mighty liberating, says michael wheeler, senior fellow at harvard business school and author of \"the art of negotiation: how to improvise agreement in a chaotic world.\"swart says basic self-care, such as being well fed, avoiding caffeine (jitters!), rest, deep breathing and hydration, can also help set you up for success. according to swart, science (findings from neuropsychologist ian robertson cited in his book, \"the winner effect\", for example) says youre more likely to come out ahead if youve just won at something else, even if completely unrelated to the negotiation you face, be it a computer game, or a tennis match, thanks to the boost in testosterone winning gives you. another way to stack the odds in your favor? if possible, swart says holding the negotiation on your home turf (your office, or your favorite restaurant or coffee shop) can boost your comfort and confidence level.3. do your homeworkresearching competitive salaries, rates and offerings prior to negotiating is the best way to prepare. preparation is essential, as many people do not plan what they are going to say, says swart. then, you must commit. once planned, you must embody it completely, she says.but be sure to present your research in a way thats conversational. ask who youre negotiating with what information they may have as well, says wheeler. make conversations open-ended. youre moving from heres my demand to a joint exploration, he says.4. make your case face-to-facebarrett says in-person negotiations, video chat or even phone negotiations are preferable to text or email, due to the lack of nuance that can happen in written communication. email is notoriously bad for negotiation because there isnt a lot of context, she explains. a firm statement on email can sound hostile when it isnt. if youre someone who finds it challenging to present your case face-to-face, she advises role playing to find phrases that can come in handy during your negotiation.5. adopt a win-win approachdepending on the context of the conversation, a few we statements can go a long way toward getting the other party to realize youre on the same team. we acknowledges youre both involved in the conversation. it feels less divisive and aggressive, wheeler says.if you use words like we, youre helping the other persons nervous system to coordinate with yours, says barrett. but you have to be careful, because if theres a winner and loser in the situation, it can sound patronizing and cause an increase in arousal, which can incite anxiety or anger.6. dont use too many wordssometimes, when were nervous in asking for what we want, we talk to fill the silence, which can work against you. overexplaining yourself puts the other person in the position of power over you, especially if things get a little personal, says barrett, adding that a good ten seconds of silence can be a strong bargaining chip. if the context is clear, use ambiguity to your advantage. silence makes the other person uncomfortable. you arent manipulating emotion  just affect.wheeler advises against intimating you have a better option. you want to look like someone whos ready to buy today with a great price and, if you arent going to buy here, theres someone down the street whos going to get your business, wheeler says. they decide whether the sale is here or elsewhere by giving you a great price or not.7. be willing to look someone in the eye and listenis there a way to turn a tentative no into a maybe, or a yes? barrett recommends opening the floor up to any questions or concerns after making your pitch. i invite the person to share their concerns and get it out in the open, she says, adding that eye-contact is key. humans direct each others attention with gaze. if im holding eye contact, then im really paying attention to what youre saying. when you look away from someones gaze, youre putting distance and showing disinterest.swart is also an advocate of openly discussing points of resistance. ask the person to explain why they are hesitating or resisting, then breathe, maintain eye contact and respond, she says. ask for feedback on what it would take to change the outcome. demonstrate flexibility and responsibility in your attitude. request a trial period.and what should you do if all your efforts are for naught? take every perceived failure as an opportunity to learn and move forward by writing down five reasons the outcome was actually a good one for you, says swart.and to tip your odds toward a yes next time, keep your eyes on the prize  and the prizegiver.more money saving tipshow to save more money this yearsmart money moves to improve your finances in 2019how living in sweden changed the way i think about moneywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

elementary, middle and high school students across the state of new york have a new topic on their educational agendas as they head back to class this fall: mental health.on july 1, a new law took effect in new york, which adds a paragraph to the states education law mandating mental health as part of health education in schools. new york is the first state in the u.s. to require mental health to be taught as part of health education.mental health experts say its a big deal.the stigma associated with mental illness and treatment for mental illness still exists, and is still a significant barrier standing in the way of more people seeking treatment for problems they face, meredith coles, phd, professor of psychology at binghamton university of the state university of new york, told nbc news better. its time to recognize that mental illnesses are real and treatable.estimates from the national institutes of mental health show that among u.s. adults 19.1 percent have had an anxiety disorder within the past year; 31.1 percent will experience an anxiety disorder at some point in their lives; and 6.7 percent are estimated to have had at least one major depressive episode.the numbers among children are similarly if not more jarring. data published in the journal of the american academy of child and adolescent psychiatry from a nationally representative sample of 10,123 adolescents ages 13 to 18 found that 22.2 percent had a serious mental illness.other data estimate 50 percent of mental illness begins by age 14, and 75 percent begins by age 24.and people arent getting help: the 2016 national survey on drug use and health showed that more than 11 million americans do not receive needed mental health services.we need to change attitudes around mental health, says coles, whose work focuses on anxiety disorders in both children and adults. starting to educate children in schools makes sense.decreasing stigma, changing attitudes and giving students practical knowledge they can use when it comes to mental health problems they or others face is why new york passed this legislation, new yorks state education commissioner, maryellen elia, tells nbc news better.when young people learn about mental health and that it is an important aspect of overall health and well-being, the likelihood increases they will be able to effectively recognize signs and symptoms in themselves and others and will know where to turn for help  and it will decrease the stigma that attaches to help-seeking, she says in an email. it is critical that we teach young people about mental health.its not about teaching psych 101. students will learn skills they can use.the law gives the latitude to individual districts, schools and classrooms to decide, as long as they meet some broad parameters, how to design curricula and lesson plans that cover mental health (as is the case for all subjects  including alcohol, drug and tobacco abuse and the prevention and detection of certain cancers, the only two other topics included in the education law that are required to be taught as part of health education in the state of new york).but new york schools arent exactly being left on their own to figure out how to add mental health education to their teaching agendas.after the changes to the law were passed in 2016, the new york state education department, along with the new york state office of mental health and the mental health association of new york state, inc. (mhanys), established the new york state mental health education advisory council in august 2017 to provide guidance to schools on how to add mental health to the curricula.the group published guidelines that include nine core elements they recommend be part of mental health education in all schools. some of those core elements in the advisory councils guidelines include (among others):the concept that mental health is part of wellness, and we all have a personal responsibility to practice the self-care we need to maintain our mental healthhow to identify early signs of mental health problems, as well as mental health crisesnegative stigma and attitudes toward mental illness can contribute to discrimination against people with such conditions and cause people to avoid getting helpappropriate resources to turn to for help and support if you or someone you know is facing a mental health problemthe group has also created an online resource center  including teacher trainings, lesson plans and other tools to help schools comply with the new law  which are all available for free for all new york state schools.the intention is to give students the knowledge they need to recognize in themselves and others when they need help, and also make sure they know where to go to get help, explains john richter, director of public policy for mhanys and author of the white paper that outlines the guidelines.the new requirement isnt about teaching kids an introductory psychology course, he says. its meant to be a public health approach to mental health education.the approach is based on principles similar to those used in mental health training programs for adults such as mental health first aid, which are designed to increase mental health literacy by increasing knowledge in how to prevent mental health problems, recognize early signs of mental health problems, and get help (as well as where to get it). evidence suggest this approach works, according to a systematic review and meta-analysis published in may in the journal plos one.but, what does it look like when you teach it to first-graders in new york city or 10th-graders in albany?elementary school students might learn about how to describe their feelings and some skills to manage their feelings, richter says: what does it mean to be sad? what does anger look like? what does it mean to be happy? if you are angry, what are some ways you can talk about that? what can you do to feel less angry?older students might learn how to distinguish more specifically between times in your life when sadness is part of a healthy range of moods and emotions in everyday life (such as when you lose a family member or friend) versus when its a symptom or problem to be concerned about (if youre withdrawing from your friends or losing interest in hobbies and activities you typically enjoy).the goal is to change the way educators, students and, ultimately, everyone talks about mental health, richter says. we want people to get the message that your mental health is just as important as your physical health.teaching mental health young has the possibility to change a lot in new york  and elsewhere.other mental health experts agree this approach has the capacity to do a lot of good.its really important for kids at all ages to have some understanding of what a mental health concern is so that it can be normalized, louis kraus, md, chief of child and adolescent psychology at rush university medical center in chicago, tells nbc.kids (and everyone, for that matter) should be able to recognize signs and symptoms of mental health problems, just like they know when someone else has asthma, allergies or another medical concern, kraus says.mental and physical health are not necessarily separate concepts and the two depend on each other for total health, says linda chokroverty, md, an attending physician and assistant clinical professor of pediatrics and psychiatry at montefiore health system and albert einstein college of medicine in new york city.knowing what traits and behaviors make young people more resilient in facing mental health challenges is important, she tells nbc news better. and teaching kids accurate and age-appropriate lessons about mental health in schools (under the guidance of knowledgeable adults) is usually a better option than allowing kids to learn about it from tv shows, movies, social media and elsewhere that may or may not provide kids with the tools they need, she says.while new york is the first state to mandate mental health education in elementary school through high school curricula, it is certainly not the only state paying attention to the issue. virginia passed legislation that also becomes effective this school year requiring schools to teach mental health lessons to ninth- and 10th-grade students.richter says other states have been in touch with mhanys about how to implement similar legislation.kraus adds that many schools across the country do already teach some mental health education even though its not mandated to be part of the curriculum  but certainly not all schools. and similar efforts to require it should be made elsewhere, he says. it could have a huge positive impact.more mental health helphow to get mental health services if you cant afford itstruggling to cope? an online mental health peer can lend supportwhat mental health experts say to their kids about school shootingshow to find the right therapistwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the scenario is all too familiar: a layoff or a desire to leave your current company catapults you into the job hunt, which means stalking job boards and mass emailing your resume into cyberspace. if youre lucky, youll hear back from one or two and maybe snag an interview.the odds arent in your favor: according to glassdoor only two percent of online applicants will be called in for an interview for the average job opening. so the cycle continues: find job posting, send resume, wait.as tedious as it is, the process is unavoidable: most of us will find ourselves looking for a new job numerous times over the course of our careers.the graduate entering the workforce today will have 10-14 jobs by the time theyre 35, says marya triandafellos, business consultant and author of careerx: expert advice on how to cultivate your career. and its not just the current generation entering the workforce who will have ample experience job hunting: according to the bureau of labor statistics, baby boomers born between 1957 to 1964 held an average of 11.9 jobs from ages 18 to 50. \"we need to get comfortable with the job search process because well spend one to three years of our career in the searching mode, says triandafellos.beginning her career as the owner of a boutique design firm, triandafellos then worked as a consultant hired by hundreds of companies to build and lead in-house digital creative teams, where she also hired hundreds of freelance staff herself. this experience gave her a unique perspective on the career process  from both the applicants point of view and from the hiring managers perspective. and she observed that most people tend to follow a conventional job-searching process:responding to posts on job boards and company websitesworking with recruitersattending job fairsparticipating in networking eventsthe problem is, this is only one of the many routes to your next gig. so if your search stops at that, youre severely limiting the job opportunities that come your way. instead of sending off that hundredth resume, triandafellos suggests giving these five unconventional strategies a try  you may just snag your dream job.get the job before its postedwhy: the reality is that only 37 percent of jobs are filled through online job boards. what about the other 63 percent?\" says triandafellos. according to some, these numbers are even bleaker: a 2014 survey conducted by careerxroads revealed that a measly 15 percent of job positions were filled through job boards  the majority were filled internally or though referrals. \"what frequently happens is that the hiring manager first considers who they can hire from their network. if they dont know anyone, then the job is posted. that means your goal is to anticipate opportunities before theyre posted, says triandafellos.how: to snag that job before it goes live to the masses, schedule meetings with your network connections, says triandafellos. connect with colleagues to get their insights on whats happening in their company: is there an employee on the way out? is a company reorganization scheduled? will there be a merger with another company? consider any opportunities that could result in a new role for you.conduct intelligence gathering, then submit a proposalwhy: i know of a creative director who was passionate about a company. he wanted to work there, but no roles were available. he conducted what i call intelligence gathering because you almost have to be a spy to uncover some of this info, says triandafellos.intelligence gathering is extensively researching a company, which triandafellos says means you:contact colleagues who work there or who are alumni (do that through linkedin)read news about the company, competitors and the industryfollow their senior management on social mediaand scour the companys websitefrom the intelligence this creative director gathered, he created an amazing infographic proposal that included his key accomplishments and other resume-based info, his understanding of the companys challenges and a proposed high-level solution. the company was so impressed, they created a unique role for him,how: to create job proposals, triandafellos says to start by creating your list of 3-5 favorite companies. shoot for the top and work your way down; your odds of success will be best in companies where you have the most contacts and contacts in the highest positions.create a networking eventwhy: i know, not everyone feels comfortable at networking events, let alone creating one! but i think its a matter of re-framing. its really about meeting people you like, helping each other, and building relationships. its not about selling yourself, says triandafellos.how: if its your first event, triandafellos says to ask a colleague to co-host a casual meet up for coffee or happy hour. invite colleagues and ask them each to bring one guest to the event to give you exposure to a larger audience. at the event, youll communicate your current job search goals and connect attendees with matching needs. or consider moderating a panel discussion to highlight your expertise. get creative and have fun thinking of event ideas! she says.volunteer your way to a jobwhy: particularly for those interested in a career change, triandafellos suggests volunteering for a nonprofit whose values align with yours. i just heard of someone who volunteered for a childrens cancer organization who landed a paid job in a cancer research company. he was thrilled to find a company who shared his lifes mission, she says.how: offer your services as a volunteer for a specific project with a concrete deliverable and end date. for example, if youre a journalist interested in becoming a copywriter, offer to review and update their website, says triandafellos. while volunteering, youll meet others that share your passion and who may have contacts for paid positions in the same field.demonstrate your expertise on social mediawhy: create a topical demonstration of your expertise and share it on social media, groups and blogs, says triandafellos. as an added benefit, choose to hone your skills in a specific area of your expertise.\" while this strategy is not a direct path to a new job, triandafellos says that it validates your expertise and provides exposure.how: \"for example, if you are a programmer, create a simple, cool app that displays local election results. if youre an expert in data security, post a white paper about identity theft layman terms. if youre a marketer, conduct a survey about the best pizza in your neighborhood, says triandafellos. after you post it, check back frequently for responses and engage in a dialogue.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerthe career advice you shouldnt listen to, according to successful female ceoswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

everythings coming up roses for millennials and generation z with regard to their money  at least thats the view from one side of their rose-colored glasses. according to the new young adult financial literacy study by charles schwab, 76 percent of young adults aged 16-25 believe theyre headed for a better financial future than their parents, 81 percent plan to own a home, and 53 percent are counting on an inheritance from mom and dad. most even plan to retire at 60. it all sounds great, but experts caution that the reality may not be so bright.many young adults are barely getting by, much less getting ahead  43 percent have had to borrow money from their parents in the last year in order to pay for necessities, and 30 percent have even skipped a meal due to lack of funds, according to the schwab study. yes, for this group there are a lot of years between now and retirement, but being able to knock back margaritas on the beach all day at 61 doesnt look particularly promising.the problem, explains stephanie corns, managing director of corporate reputation for charles schwab, is that the details get a little lost in translation. when youre that age, you dont know what it takes to retire  you havent experienced the realities of working and saving. i wont say that some of these goals are not possible for them, but they have to have a plan for how to get there.a nudge from mom and dadprioritizing what you want your life to look like 40 years into the future is a tough concept for most young adults to wrap their heads around, corns says. most of them arent thinking, if i spend on these concert tickets right now, how does that impact my goal to buy a home? the good news is that some of their optimism can be channeled into positive financial habits, but its going to take some help from mom and dad.according to the schwab study, 44 percent of young adults say their parents are more likely to talk to them about drugs than money, yet 69 percent of the young adults surveyed said they believe their parents are good financial role models. in other words, theyre watching and listening, but its up to the parents to initiate these conversations, corns says.according to the schwab study, 44 percent of young adults say their parents are more likely to talk to them about drugs than money.two of the best ways parents can broach the money topic with their kids is to be open and honest about their own financial mistakes (paying off credit card debt, taking a bad mortgage, etc.), and to have frequent conversations about their own budgeting strategies and concerns, corns says. these conversations arent always fun, but youre doing your child a disservice if you dont have them.start to save, with a tech assistonce you open the door with a conversation, youve teed up the first action step: saving, a lifetime of which is the key to a stable financial future. start small. recently, investment firm acorns studied what happened when it asked one group of its users to save $5 day and another $150 a month. do the math and youll see the amounts are identical  and yet the $5 a day program was five times more successful, even for people making just $25,000 a year. no matter how much you  or your kids  are saving, make sure you do it automatically. the idea is to make a good decision one time then dine out on it for years.focus on prioritiesaccording to the schwab study, 51% of the young adults surveyed have some level of debt, but if given an extra $1,000 to spend however they want, only 3% would use the money to pay down debt. thats a problem. paying down high interest rate credit card debt, in particular, should be at the top of the financial priority list. americans have a bad habit of saving when times are bad, and spending when the economy is good. many of us have a very short memory, and as such are already deaf to what happened in 2008, says john girouard, ceo of financial planning firm capital asset management group and author of take back your money.hes right. its particularly worrisome that debts of all sorts have not only reached but exceeded 2008s record setting levels. talk to your kids about wiping the slate clean of high interest rate debt while simultaneously trying to amass savings that they can use in the event of future emergencies.then, get clear about your priorities and the order in which you may want to accomplish them. take a look at how much money you have coming in and decide: how much goes into savings? to debt repayment? to other goals? if you dont have enough money for a rainy day fund, how can you think about a bigger goal of owning home?, says arian vojdani, an investment strategist at mv financial. youre putting the cart in front of the horse.get real with the numbersfinally, it helps tremendously to know how much your future life will actually cost. thanks to social media, were inundated with other peoples success stories that definitely feed into feelings of financial optimism, explains adam vega, certified financial planner and wealth manager at united capitals fort lauderdale office. \"i have often worked with millennials who have optimistic goals of early retirement, home ownership, or globe-trotting vacations and adventures. everything seems so attainable, because theyve never had to plan for it and see the cost.\"with many of the stats from the schwab study, young adults seem to be throwing out arbitrary goals without a base of knowledge, explains vojdani. better to get educated and then dream, than to dream without an education.with kathryn tugglemore money tips for millennialswhat you need to know about renting vs. buying a homehow to grow your savings and reach your short-term goals fasterhow the 50-20-30 rule can help you get out of debt and save moneywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

theyre heeeere. starbucks pumpkin spice lattes (or simply, psl) made their fall debut recently, and while starbucks psl is a fan favorite, its probably fairly obvious that it isnt a nutritional winner. its too bad because pumpkin contains plenty of healthy nutrients, and canned pumpkin puree is an easy way to get the benefits. a cup of canned pumpkin provides about 30% of your daily fiber needs, 10% of your potassium requirements, and more than 300% of your vitamin a targets.if youre turning to a pumpkin spice latte or any number of packaged pumpkin spice products to enjoy these fall flavors, youre really missing out on an upgrade. here are some delicious idea that bring more nutritional bang for your buck while still honoring falls most craveable flavor.pumpkin spice latteperformance dietitian, cynthia sass, mph, rd, cssd, recommends trading in your coffee shop psl for her homemade version: in a saucepan over low heat, combine 2 tablespoons canned pumpkin,  teaspoon pumpkin pie spice, a pinch of sea salt, 1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract, and  cup unsweetened almond milk, stirring until warmed and fragrant, about 3 minutes. transfer the pumpkin mixture to a high-speed blender and add  cup hot, brewed coffee, 2 teaspoons pure maple syrup, and 1 tablespoon unsweetened almond butter, and blend until frothy. in addition to moderating the sugar content, this version provides some solid nutrition, she says. just two tablespoons of canned pumpkin packs nearly a days worth of immune-supporting vitamin a, maple syrup provides a solid amount of manganese, a mineral that helps produce collagen and promote skin and bone health, and almonds have been shown to support weight loss.cranberry pumpkin granola barsmaking a batch of homemade granola is worth the minimal effort involved. most store bought granola contains excessive amounts of added sugar, and few have high quality nuts and seeds that provide an added dose of nutrition. here, in this piece from sara haas, rdn, youll find pecans and pumpkin seeds, which amp up the healthy fats, fiber, and protein, not to mention the flavor. plus, this recipe contains canned pumpkin, an ingredient ive never seen in pre-packaged granola. this granola is all you need to add pumpkin spice flavor to smoothies and yogurt bowls.chocolate pumpkin protein barsthese gluten-free, vegan snack bars pack in some protein and fiber, which help crush between-meal hunger. in addition to the goodness from pumpkins, these bars get extra nutrition from almond butter. almonds are a significant source of magnesium, a mineral thats involved in blood glucose and blood pressure regulation. surveys suggest that the majority of americans dont eat sufficient amounts of magnesium, putting them at risk for diabetes and heart disease. oats, also used here, are another excellent source of this mineral. instead of your usual bar, trade up to this homemade one.pumpkin spice apple crispthis fall treat is made with whole food ingredients, including apples, pumpkin puree and gluten free oats, which means your dessert plate is full of vitamins, minerals, and fiber to nourish your body. plus, consuming fruit, including apples, has mood-nourishing benefits: a study involving more than 6,000 women who were followed for six years found that eating two or more servings of fruit per day was linked to a lower risk of depression and symptoms associated with the mood disorder. this is an apple crisp you can cozy up to all fall to promote those feelings of well-being.chai spiced pumpkin oatmeal muffins with vanilla bean cream cheese glazehealthy ingredients, including whole wheat pastry flour, whole grain oats and canned pumpkin make this treat better than your average muffin. and lets get clear about carbs for a moment. though you can certainly lose weight on a ketogenic plan, a balanced approach can be more sustainable and beneficial. in the latest analysis, both a high carb and a low carb plan were linked to higher death rates. the magic was in the middle: a 50-55% carb intake was associated with the lowest death rates, with those carbs coming from quality sources, including whole grains.whole wheat pumpkin wafflesyour weekends are about to get a pumpkin spice makeover. these waffles are made with white whole wheat flour. if you dont already have this flour in your pantry, youre going to want to make room for it. traditional whole wheat flour is made from red wheat, which gives it the nutty flavor and darker color you may be familiar with. white whole wheat flour comes from a different wheat variety, which is why its lighter and milder than traditional whole wheat. yet because it contains the intact components of the grain, its nutritionally equivalent to standard whole wheat flour. for home bakers, that means you can get the similar texture and taste of all purpose flour, but with all the goodness of whole grains. try these waffles and taste for yourself.pumpkin spice cashew buttertransform your toast with this pumpkin spiced treat made from five simple ingredients. though many specialty-flavored nut butters may have excessive amounts of added sugar, this version offers a significant sugar savings: theres just one teaspoon in the entire 9-serving batch. if toast isnt your thing, try it spread over apple or pear slices, or use a dab inside a sliced date.though this recipe could not be simpler, if you dont have a blender or just want an easy hack, mix your store bought nut butter (whether cashew, almond, or another) with some pumpkin spice.pumpkin chocolate chip breadbanana bread has a rival in this pumpkin chocolate chip loaf. stacey mattinson ms, rd, lightened up her family recipe by using less sugar and swapping half the oil for unsweetened apple sauce. she also made it healthier by reducing the salt. if youre going to put this loaf on heavy rotation, you may want to make it even more nutritious by swapping the all-purpose flour for white whole wheat flour.pumpkin spice roasted chickpea trail mixif your pumpkin spice cravings are a mix of salty and sweet, this roasted chickpea trail mix will hit the spot. chickpeas have some serious snacking benefits, too. in one small study, after adding about 2/3 cup of chickpeas per day for a period of 12 weeks, participants food diaries revealed they were eating less of other fare, especially grains, yet they felt more satisfied. four weeks after returning to their eating routine (and thus, eating fewer chickpeas), they were eating significantly more processed snack foods. the real foods combined in this trail mix will help you snack your way to satisfaction.more healthy recipes13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonighthealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for you5 healthier, better bowls of ramen to take tonightwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

it will be a treacherously long weekend for the carolinas, as hurricane florence, which made landfall on the north carolina coast on friday morning, lashes heavy rain and winds of 90 mph.in the words of chris wamsley of the national weather service at a friday morning press conference: this is only the beginning. florence is a very slow mover, [and] will continue to trek along the north carolina and south carolina coastline for the next 24 to 36 hours, he said.the storm has already resulted in flooding, mass power outages, emergency rescues and the death of at least five people, including an infant.weve yet to know what the weekend and the aftermath of the storm will bear, but we shouldnt wait to help. now is the time.if we can get ahead of it, it wont be as bad in the long run, greg forrester president and ceo, national voluntary organizations active in disaster (voad) tells nbc news better.heres what you can do:donate moneythe first thing you can do and the easiest way to help us help the communities [affected] is to make a donation, anthony tornetta, a spokesperson for the american red cross told nbc news better. after a big disaster, the red cross spends an average of 91 cents of each dollar to help people in need. this includes shelter, food, relief items, health and emotional support, and financial assistance, as well as logistics and support. the rest of the dollar  about nine cents  helps keep the entire red cross running by covering things like hr, finance systems and fundraising.you can donate through the red cross website, over the phone by calling 1-800-red-cross and by texting 9099 to give $10.you can also send a check to your local red cross and write [in the memo line on the check] that you want the money used for hurricane florence, says torenetta.donate bloodtornetta notes that previously scheduled blood drives in the affected areas have been cancelled due to the storm, but blood donations are needed year-round.the unfortunate reality is that hospital patients will need surgeries and treatments to survive, says tornetta. blood can last up to 56 days and we can ship it around the country to where it is needed.hold off on clothing donations  they can be a hassledonating clothing, shoes and other items to people is a charitable action, but one that can actually be a hassle for workers who have to thoroughly clean the items and assess the sizing, tornetta says.if youre adamant about donating clothing, i would check with community partners to see where donation spots are, tornetta adds. if you show up at a red cross building with bag of clothes we certainly wont turn you away, its just much easier to take cash and turn into resources. its a faster turnaround.voad directly asks people to not give clothing.it ends up being a second disaster because its just problematic. we just dont have room for storage, and we have such a mishmash of things that cant be utilized, says forrester. these volunteers can be assisting survivors instead of sifting through clothes. it draws away from the primary. donating to the local salvation army and goodwill [is best] as they will make vouchers available to survivors to pick up clean and properly-sized clothing, including in areas that have been evacuated so that volunteers do not have to process the clothing.the nba steps it up, calls attention to food donationsmichael jordan, the charlotte hornets and the nba have teamed up to help raise money for a number of local organizations providing relief efforts including the american red cross, direct relief, foundation for the carolinas, second harvest food bank and the united way of central carolinas.you can give directly online to each of these organizations and learn about volunteer opportunities. second harvest food bank also accepts food donations.if you are donating food to an organization, always check what they need and will take.shelters typically dont take freshly made goods because of the risk of contamination and allergies, says forrester.if you live far from the affected area, youre still helping by donating canned food and bottled water to your local food bank, as youre replenishing local sources so that more can be dropped into north and south carolina, adds forrester.volunteer for the long haulget out there and make a difference in whats arguably the most personally fulfilling way.become a red cross volunteer, tornetta urges. well get you in a vest and get you out helping people. [as of thursday] we had more than 1500 people in virginia and the carolinas and not all of them are from there. the red cross assures that travel for volunteers to and from the disaster area is provided for.online donation safety tipssadly, scammers are quick to prey on the financially charitable in the wake of great disasters.forrester notes that all national organizations on voads website have been vetted for authenticity.if donating to a gofundme or other crowdfunding campaign, consider this checklist provided to nbc news better by michael lai, consumer protection expert, ceo and co-founder of sitejabber, an online review platform.search for crowdfunding platforms that have experience with disaster reliefcheck online reviews to see platforms on which donors have been happy making charitable donationscheck how successful previous disaster relief campaigns were on the platform (e.g. how much money raised? how many donors?)research the quality of the platforms customer supportread reviews of donors experiences interacting with customer support. this can be done on sitejabbercheck to see if their support team is easy to get in touch with (email, chat)what guarantees does the platform offer to help fight fraud? gofundme offers up to $1k refunds to donors of misused campaignscheck the fees and fine printthe top complaint on sitejabber is that many people are surprised by how much the platform takes vs. donating directly to charitymost platforms take 8-10 percent of totalread the terms and conditions (some campaigns are taken down unexpectedly)check refund policies of platformmost platforms will refund money if campaign is closed or doesnt reach goalsresearch the cause and actual person raising the fundsonly fully trust campaigns set up for or by people you knowcheck online profiles of campaign manager (fb, linkedin. check histories)reach out to campaign manager directlypay with credit card so you can request a chargeback if necessarynever pay via wire transfer (western union, moneygram)paypal offers a certain degree of fraud protectioncredit cards will often allow disputes and charge-backs from issuing bankdont be shy about a donation that feels paltry. torentta stresses that even just a little bit goes to help peoples needs and aid in recovery.were already looking at 5 to 10 years of recoveryand if you cant donate or volunteer now, do it later. this recovery process will be a long haul.were looking at anywhere between a five and 10 year recovery process, says forrester. were just getting into rebuilding from last years storms.weather safety tipshow to prepare for a power outage, according to a professional prepperhow hurricanes are namedhow to protect your home from floodshow your brain reacts to watching disasterswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

weve fed them all of their fruits and vegetables. bandaged bumps and bruises. taught them right from wrong. attended endless parent-teacher conferences. reminded them to never, ever talk to strangers. then we cheer as these fresh-faced, 18-year-old kids graduate from high school, pack up all their favorite belongings in the family car and drop them off and leave them to their own devices among a world of strangers. i am now officially experiencing the perils of parenting: part two.as a working single mother of five incredible children, i survived my first experience with the emotional roller coaster of freshman year drop-off. i recently deposited my first-born, emily, to the ohio state university where she plans to pursue a degree in molecular biology and genetics. her ultimate goal is to become an orthopedic surgeon in the pediatric field  no worries on goal setting for my type a child.i was filled with a mixture of pride and dread throughout the entire month leading up to this long-awaited day. did she pack too much? was she going to make good friends? (i always tell my kids you truly are the company you keep!) as i watched her vacuum pack her entire wardrobe into miniature transportable packs and stood stunned at her bedroom door as she checked off her exhaustive list of to dos before she left for school, i started to get a bigger ache in my chest. how did this day arrive so fast? i began asking myself how i might weather day-to-day life without the only child that has been with me through every step of the hills and valleys of motherhood? observing me sullen in her doorway, she knew i was having a parenting moment, as i often tell emily that she has to be extra patient with me since im practicing everything out on her since she was my first. and, lets face it, there really is no owners manual for sleep-deprived moms bringing home a warm bundle from the hospital.thankfully, my high school-aged daughter haley was willing to provide me with emotional (and driving) support and squeezed into the packed-to-the-brim suv for the long drive from chicago to columbus. we played favorite songs, talked about emilys room setup ideas and laughed about how our english bulldog hope would miss her other mommy. aside from my initial tear-filled mini-breakdown in the starbucks line three blocks from our driveway (where i emotionally told the barista about my firstborn leaving me) it was a jovial time in the car ride to ohio. yet, in the back of my mind (and in my heart), i was preparing for that dreaded hug goodbye.when we arrived on campus, ohio state greeted us with a phenomenal big ten welcome and an impressively orchestrated move-in process to usher the 7,000 eager freshman and their families to the multitude of dorms. emily quickly worked with the universitys move-in crew to get her belongings into her room and we did quite an efficient job unpacking before her new roommate arrived. the whole time, however, i was becoming more painfully aware that i was about to leave her. that i wouldnt have her be just a bedroom (or kitchen holler) away. that we couldnt watch a netflix show or get our nails done at a moments notice on the weekend. that this was finally the adult evolution of our relationship.when it was time to say farewell, i tried to make it both brief and positive but we both shed tears. okay, i also have to admit that i did run back down the hallway for one more long hug goodbye. my other daughter haley made the six-hour ride home both peaceful and tolerable for her emotionally-raw mother and even assured me that emily would be fine, as would i. (when did 15-year-olds get so wise?)this was finally the adult evolution of our relationship.i offer the following observations for any parent who has recently been in my shoes as they transition their first child to college:sure, theyre in collegebut they still need usim quickly finding that even though emily is 377 miles away, she still is in daily contact. i have set a limit of reaching out to her proactively to once a day but have made myself available whenever she needs to call or facetime. i am finding it a healthy boundary to give her space to be on her own, but greatly enjoy when she calls me or texts me photos of her days adventures running across campus to chem lab. i imagine its quite a lot to process navigating a huge campus, a full course load and the dynamics of a co-ed floor.they need to learn to fly (and fail) without a neti have always explained my parenting philosophy with a bowling analogy. parents (and caregivers) provide the bumper rails elementary school through high school. likely, there are going to be lots of wild balls and some spares and strikes along the way, too. when your child enters college, they should be bowling more than a few strikes and spares without much use of those trusty bumpersbut were still there just in case they need us. and upon graduation of college, those bumpers are gone and theyre finally bowling their own game and must always strive to improve on their score.this new chapter opens new doors with younger kidsi have never known a day in my life when i wasnt parenting emily at a close distance. these past three weeks since college drop off occurred, im finding new ways and pockets of time to spend time with my other kids and evolve our individual relationships. one would think with five kids in my home, one child at college wouldnt feel all that differently. it actually does. there is a giant hole. but im embracing the new formation of the four kids at home and how we all manage our busy lives together. and, i like this new normal, too.as a proud purdue boilermaker, im intent on having one of my five children attend my alma mater, and i may get my chance when my second-born, john henry, begins the college application process this fall. heaven help me, i have to do this all again in less than a year. however, this go around, i plan to lean into the dread and embrace the fact that with change, comes new beginnings in this crazy adventure called parenthood.kathleen kenehan henson is a contributor to nbc news better and the founder and ceo of agency h5, an award-winning public relations and integrated marketing firm based in chicago. she is the mother of five children ages 18-9 and was recently featured in the new book kindness in leadership (gay haskins, 2018).more stories on navigating motherhoodhow being a boss makes me a better mom3 things moms dont need to worry about when going back to workwhat its like to give up alcohol in a wine mom worldamerica has a motherhood problem  heres how to solve itwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

good communication. emotional management. establishing realistic expectations. many of us understand these are all important tools for setting up healthy emotional boundaries in a relationship. but we still often fail to understand our partner is a separate person from ourselves, according to relationships blogger kris gage.and i think understanding how to bridge that gap is what emotional boundaries are really about, gage tells nbc news better.gage, 31, says deeply-rooted cultural attitudes about love often cause people to see romance in terms of co-dependence.we learned bad models from anything from like rom coms to love songs to our friends  anything really, she says.the writer, who lives in north carolina, gives some helpful advice to understand when your relationship lacks good emotional boundaries, and what to do about it.take responsibility for your own emotionsif you and your partner constantly argue about the same thing, its a sign one or both of you lack good emotional boundaries, says gage.i think  one of the red flags is when you have the same fight over and over and over, she says.people with poor emotional boundaries will often blame their partner for their feelings, which can lead to unresolved conflict, she explains. often, when arguing, they will use phrases like you make me feel x and you make me do x gage says this is because many people dont grasp that they are responsible for their own reactions.people dont make us do things unless theyre actually coercing us, which is not happening in a relationship, she says.people who have good emotional boundaries take responsibility for their own emotions, she explains. in other words, they see themselves as an active, rather than passive, agent in the relationship, she says.when you are upset about something and you immediately go to your partner and focus on what they did  so you did this and it made me [do x]  like youre a passive participant, like a victim, thats a red flag, and pretty much everything comes down to that, gage says.look at emotional boundaries like they are cookiesone way to understand emotional boundaries is to look at them the way you would a cookie  or anything you are temped by, says gage.the problem isnt understanding the value of setting up an emotional boundary  just like the problem isnt the value of knowing that a cookie is junk food, she explains. the problem is that underlying motivation or that underlying discernment of when to eat the cookie.for example, eating a cookie because youre stressed isnt the same as eating it because youre hungry, or because you just ran 5 miles and want to reward yourself.how we engage with our partner is similar, according to gage. it isnt about the person  its about understanding what we truly want, she explains.and so with emotional boundaries its like, are you saying no to something from a place of love, either love in yourself, or are you saying no from a place of fear? she asks. so things like that. its much more difficult to discern emotional boundaries and understand where that line is.give to yourself what you are looking for in your partnerwhen we stop assigning our emotions to our partner, we begin to take responsibility for how we feel, says gage. this, in turn, leads to healthier boundaries.its really about self love, gage says. if you feel that youre constantly grasping at others for love, for compassion, for understanding, for respect, or whatever it is, if you feel a sense of flailing for it, or desperation, or a distinct strong unhappiness associated with not having this need met, its because youre not meeting it for yourself. so anything that you feel that you are not getting from a partner, you first have to give to yourself.for example, lets say youre feeling lonely because your partner had an engagement. even though they promised to spend time with you another day, you assign your feelings of loneliness onto them. this is a sign that you are not truly fulfilled within yourself, explains gage.that need the reason youre flailing and struggling so hard to get it met from other people  is because youre withholding it from yourself, says gage. its never going to be met outside of you first  it has to be met inside first.learn when to say thats not minegage says she educated herself about emotional boundaries after dating a guy who had a tendency to blame his feelings on her. but she learned a major lesson, she says, which is not to allow others to assign their emotions onto her.what i learned from that was when to push back on the other person, and say thats not mine, she explains.she says she has learned to react differently in her current relationship.ive noticed i will take more care in how i interact with him, gage says. so if i feel that i have like either lashed out or said, you make me feel i will catch myself and i then i will circle back and call it out. just say like hey, that was my emotion that i was feeling and thats not yours to deal with, and then we just move on.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness is one of the best-known phrases in the united states declaration of independence. we have thomas jefferson to thank for the phrase, which has gone on to play significant roles in court cases including 1967s loving v. virginia in which the supreme court invalidated a virginia law that prohibited the interracial marriage, noting the \"freedom to marry has long been recognized as one of the vital personal rights essential to the orderly pursuit of happiness by free men.\"we may all be free to pursue happiness, but where we live in the u.s plays a deeper role in this quest than we may think, or so new research from wallethub suggests. the personal finance site and app ranked 2018s happiest states in america, finding that some states are doing significantly better in this pursuit than others.\"we analyzed the 50 states across 31 metrics, which were chosen in conjunction with several academic experts, says jill gonzalez, wallethub analyst. the metrics were selected based on their relevance as well as availability of data. the most important metrics were the share of adult depression, suicide rates, number of work hours, job security and idealness of weather.\"hawaii and utah take top slots; arkansas and west virginia dwell at the bottomthe five happiest states based on these metrics are hawaii, utah, minnesota, and north dakota, with california coming in at no. 5. the bottom-ranking states are oklahoma, alaska, louisiana, and arkansas, with west virginia slumping in at no. 50.\"there are some differences from last years results, like hawaii moving up from third to first place this year, or north dakota up from fourteenth to fourth this year, says gonzalez. however, we do not encourage comparisons between reports from different years, as we have updated our methodology since then.\"hawaii is pricey but laid-back and outdoorsyperhaps the most standout quality of this list is what lies in wallethubs intro, which notes that money doesnt drive happiness and cites that happiness only increases with wealth up to an annual income of $75,000, based on 2010 research.this is a cheerful but difficult sentiment to buy, particularly when you consider that hawaii has the highest cost of living in the u.s. youre probably not relocating to hawaii unless youre doing very well financially, and if youre living there without the means, you could be among the nearly 11 percent of the population struggling with poverty.but hawaii has something that is invaluable: a relatively relaxed attitude with a predilection for social interaction and outdoorsy adventures.hawaiis happiness [ranking] is really attributed to culture, pamela gail johnson, founder of the secret society of happy people tells nbc news better. theres a city environment, but culturally, its more laid-back, which contributes to emotional and physical well-being. theres lots of beaches, walking and hiking. its an environment that fosters a stop and smell the roses mentality.still, its interesting that of all 50 states, hawaii had the lowest-adequate sleep rate. perhaps theres an argument for pulling an all-nighter in the name of happiness?utah touts low divorce rates, work-life balance and community effortsutah, the second-happiest state based on this ranking, is of course, very different in both in geography and culture than hawaii. but it ranks highly on a variety of levels; its first in fewest work hours, volunteer rate and has the lowest divorce rate. it also came in second (after colorado, which ranked at 18th overall) in highest sports participation rate.we know that if you ever look for a happy pick-me-up, helping others, is a boost, says johnson. utahs volunteer rate certainly contributes to its [second-place ranking]. having the lowest divorce rate also says something because our significant relationships, whether marriage or friendship, play a huge role in our happiness.a connection to nature is profoundly powerfulhaving beautiful and accessible natural scenery within reach is also a perk for utah, california and other high-ranking states.some explanation around places such as california, hawaii, utah and north dakotas [high ranking] suggest that connection to nature can help support happiness, and that time spent outdoors can truly teach about containment, lower expectations from the artificial, technology-driven world around us and help foster that connectedness to the earth and other people, says christie tcharkhoutian a marriage and family therapist .an additional component of the happiness that may contribute to residents of california is the aspect of hope and purpose, she adds. many people live in california to pursue their dreams and that sense of purpose that you are working towards something meaningful, even if you havent yet reached your end goal, can provide more access to happiness as a state of mind as that pursuit continues.west virginia and arkansass economy woes are red flagsthough wallethub champions the idea that you cant buy happiness, bottom-ranking states west virginia and arkansas underscore the importance of a vital economy and the unhappiness the lack of it can bring. west virginia was the worst state for business according to a 2017 poll while arkansas came in at 41. both states improved just slightly in the same poll in 2018 coming in at 48 and 40, respectively. these states were also bottom dwellers on wallethubs 2018 best &amp; worst state economies list.i think both in west virginia and arkansas you have to look at the economy, says johnson. they rank low on the work front and on the emotional and physical well being front and i think a piece of that is interconnected to jobs. i doubt the average wage there [amounts] to $75k a year. this could contribute to the high rate of adult depression (arkansas came in at 48 and west virginia at 49).remember: you can be happy anywherei live in los angeles, the city in the fifth-happiest state according to this report, but its stressful to make ends meet here and i cant help but wonder, would i be happier in hawaii where the vibe is more relaxed? or maybe utah where the cost of living is lower and the work hours arent insane?but i know im not about to pick up and go, so i have to remember that happiness is a place that exists wherever i make it.it is important to understand happiness as a state of being, that can be experienced, rather than a status quo or end goal to be achieved, says tcharkhoutian.frank niles, phd, a social scientist, adventure athlete and executive educator finds that happiness does seem to have a formula  and zip codes arent a part of it.happiness comes down to being physically and emotionally healthy, pursuing things that are meaningful to us personally and contributing to something larger than ourselves, says niles, adding that time with other people is critical to this pursuit. if you think about it, the most meaningful experiences weve had in our lives have been with other people. so, if you were to ask me, what can i do to become more happy? i would say live fully in the present, seek ways to make a difference in the lives of other people everyday, and make time in your life to build healthy relationships that are defined by giving and receiving support.more tips for health and happinessstressed? heres how to tap into a zen feeling (almost) instantlywhy the simple act of being in nature helps you de-stresshow to have a better life in 7 easy stepswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

name: jerome wilsonage: 55residence: philadelphiajob: loans and account representative for drexel universitymarital status: married, father of four grown childrenpeak weight: 330 poundscurrent weight: 195 poundsin 2011, when jerome wilson started a job at drexel university, reaching his office meant tackling stairs. i had to climb this marble staircase, and dragging 300-plus pounds up and down those steps was too much on my knees. something had to give, he says. i needed to make a change in my life. if i didnt i would be facing serious health issues. his weight had led to osteoarthritis in his knees and ankles, and he expected it would also contribute to diabetes and high blood pressure if he didnt do something.when he heard about a weight-loss study at drexels well center he signed up. it took a significant commitment. the national institutes of healthfunded program, called mind your health, ran for three years and brought together a range of strategies to promote weight loss.making thoughtful choicesevan m. forman, ph.d., director of the well center and lead researcher for the study, points out that, for weight loss, taking in less energy that you are expending is key. but for pretty much everyone, thats really hard to do. we tried to figure out why its so hard, he says.a huge factor is that we are biologically motivated to seek out and eat high-calorie food. and psychologically, its especially hard to resist when this food is around you, cheap, and available, he says.the program taught people how to be hungry, or have a craving, without turning to food. they learned to accept things the way they are and to be ok with their state of mind.wilson says that strategy worked for him. you can say, i see that chocolate cake, i love chocolate cake, but i dont have to eat chocolate cake, he says. or, you can eat the chocolate cake, but if youre serious about your calorie intake, that make be the only thing you can eat that day.whats driving the desire to lose weight?the program also helped strengthen peoples motivation so they could overpower their natural desire to seek pleasure. people learned to look past goals like lose weight or look better.we wanted to get to more deep-seated values: what is life about to you? how can you use that to help with your weight loss? what about being a parent, grandparent, traveler, learner  what values are in your life? forman says. you can have a powerful value that should be running your life, but in our hectic, modern life youre not thinking about that.he recommends putting an image or phrase on your phone home screen so every time you turn on your phone youre reminded of your values. when you become more mindful of your deepest values you can use them in moments of making a decision. its in your mind many times a day, he says.your values can help you recognize your desires without acting on them. you can learn to pause before choosing either cake or fruit, for example. in that pause, you can consider your values and think about what it would be like to deny yourself.can you learn to put up with that loss of pleasure for the sake of something that matters to you in a deep and fundamental way? forman asks. maybe you cant do that all the time, but if you keep practicing it gets easier. you can learn to sit with the feeling, not wishing it was different or wishing the urge would go away, just recognizing that you have this urge and that its ok. you can make the choice thats more fundamentally in line with what you believe in, forman says.do you really know what you eat?as part of the study, wilson had to write down everything he ate and share his journal with the dietitian and the psychologist leading his group. it made you accountable, he says.forman points out that without logging everything you eat, you cant accurately know how much youre taking in. so its almost impossible to know what to change. seemingly small things can make a huge difference, he says.wilsons journal taught him that the biggest changes he had to make were portion control and late-night eating. in the first week they give you a scale and measuring cups and information about the portion sizes you should be eating. that was helpful. i had never done that before. i always just piled food on my plate and ate it, he says.while wilsons pre-program diet wasnt terrible, there was room for changes that could help shift the scale in the right direction. he cut back on pizza and fried foods and started choosing more fruits, salads, healthy nuts, and baked and roasted fish.wilson also says the program helped him realize that we live in an obesentric society  a world where everything around us is designed to make us fat. the group leaders pointed out that the average serving size for a burger grew from 3.9 ounces in 1955 to 12 ounces in 2006, for example. bagels, muffins  everything is supersized. were putting gobs of calories into our bodies. i learned that i was putting calories in my body i really didnt need, he says.from couch potato to gym ratwilson was active and slim in high school and later during a stint in the military, but after that he settled into a sedentary life. he wasnt exercising when he started mind your health, but he gradually built up a solid workout schedule. hes in the gym four or five days a week, after work and on saturday mornings. he starts with stretching, then does 30 minutes of cardio and 45 minutes of weight training. on alternate saturday mornings he likes to ride his bike eight to 10 miles around philadelphia.while he spends a lot of time exercising, he said it was easy to fit into his schedule. my children are grown so i have the time, outside of work and church. i was just coming home and sitting around, he says.slow, steady weight losswilson lost one to three pounds a week on the program. we had to weigh in each time and my weight never stayed the same, he says. it took him three years, but he surpassed his goal weight of 200 pounds and dropped to 185 pounds. at 185 pounds he felt his energy level dropping, so he added protein shakes and now maintains a weight of 195 to 200 pounds. once i picked up a couple of pounds i felt better. i had more energy and more strength in the gym, he says. hes maintained his weight loss for more than two years.while people like wilson who drop more than 100 pounds have dramatic stories to share, forman points out that a 5 to 10 percent weight loss is generally considered a success, since losing that much leads to overall health improvements. with mind your health, 64.0 percent of people lost and maintained at least 10 percent of their weight, compared to 48.9 percent of people using other gold-standard weight-loss programs.and that staircase that pushed wilson to lose weight? while he works in a different building now, he says, those marble steps were not a problem the last time i climbed them.wilson was so happy with his weight-loss success he came up with a motto: if you measure what you eat and you move your feet, any weight-loss goal youre bound to meet.jeromes typical daily mealsbreakfast: a hardboiled or scrambled egg, a toasted whole-wheat english muffin, and possibly a small fruit saladlunch: a good-sized salad with some type of protein, drizzled with fresh lemon juice and olive oildinner: a protein shake and an apple, orange, or banana.snacks: peanut butter on whole-wheat crackers, or a muffin if he didnt have one with breakfastwilson also fasts on wednesdays, a long-standing practice he began before enrolling in the program. he doesnt eat from tuesday evening until wednesday after sundown.more weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

i moved to sweden from the u.k. after being offered my dream first job there, despite knowing very little about the country or its culture at the time. i lucked out, as its an amazing place to live and work  but one big adjustment was that its far more expensive than my home country. eating out, and especially drinking, are treats i have to budget for carefully, rent in the capital city is high, and there have been extra expenses like trips home to see family to factor in.but after nearly three years here, alongside an addiction to cinnamon buns, ive developed a better quality of life and a healthier attitude towards money and goal-setting. these are some of the scandinavian buzzwords that helped me get there.1. janteloven (danish) | the law of jantethis term comes from a danish book from the 1930s and refers to the ten rules of a fictional town, usually summed up as you are not to think youre better than us. these days, its often used to refer to the unwritten codes of scandinavian society: prizing humbleness over ego, and conformity over standing out. some people say its an unwelcoming philosophy that makes people fear individuality rather than celebrating it. and yet scandinavia is home to so much innovation, from pop music to environmentally-friendly tech and much more. i interpret jante as a reminder that individual success doesnt make you superior to anyone else, and that was a really welcome perspective for me.throughout university and in the early days of my career, i put a lot of pressure on myself to succeed in every way i could, from the amount of money i earned to how i looked. its an easy but destructive cycle to get drawn into  comparing yourself to peers and setting countless targets to try to win at life. i still aim to do my job well and progress in my career, but the feeling of being part of a community where everyone plays a different but equal role helps me slow down and feel good about where i am, rather than racing to the next milestone.2. dstdning (swedish) death-cleaningthe word death-cleaning is a combination of two things i usually try to avoid thinking about, but the idea behind it is surprisingly sweet. it was coined by a swedish grandma who rather bluntly says she sorts through her belongings as an act of love so that her family isnt left with piles of junk to go through when she dies. its less extreme than the kind of minimalism id read about before  this is definitely not about owning only one set of cutlery and sleeping on the floor, but rather getting rid of anything you dont love or use.the idea of looking at every object in terms of its role over your lifespan has been useful to me. ive moved house nine times in the past five years, which makes decluttering a practical necessity. my tiny apartment may never live up to the pristine scandinavian aesthetic you see on instagram or in magazines, but i try to make sure the things keeping me company there are all either useful or loved. one example is my habit of hoarding beautiful notebooks, because i was waiting to come up with the perfect project worthy of writing in them. after taking a shoebox full of empty notebooks with me each time i moved house, ive finally begun actually using them in order to justify their place. life is too short to live with clutter, but its also too short not to write in the pretty notebook or eat off your fancy plates.3. lagom (swedish) | just enoughthis often crops up in lists of untranslatable words, but it roughly means in moderation: not too much and not too little. how much milk do you want in your coffee? lagom milk. hows the weather? lagom-warm. how was your weekend? oh, lagom.im instinctively an all-or-nothing type of person. if i wanted to get fit, id buy a ton of workout clothes and sign up for three different classes (then inevitably give up six weeks in); if i decided to start saving more, id go cold turkey on buying alcohol, new clothes and takeaway coffee (and inevitably give up six weeks in). and moving to a new city, its easy to get overwhelmed and try to burn the candle at every possible end to make the most of your time there  which is what i did during my year studying abroad in college. but it meant paying a lot of money for food, drink and entry fees for every event i could fit into my schedule, much of which i was too exhausted to even enjoy.saying no to invitations im not really excited by leaves more time and money to say yes to the things i really want to do.now after three years in the land of lagom, the idea has started to seep into my psyche. saying no to invitations im not really excited by leaves more time and money to say yes to the things i really want to do. rather than being boring or mundane as i first thought it was, lagom is about keeping balance in your life.4. friluftsliv (norwegian) | open-air lifein theory, ive always known the benefits of spending time outdoors and exercising, but its only after three years in sweden that its become a non-negotiable part of my everyday life. i think it has something to do with the long winters; if swedes waited for a nice day to get out of the house, theyd live as hermits. now i manage to get outside and exercise without needing to think about it: hiking at weekends, swimming in lakes during summer and making sure i spend time outside on winter days to get a vitamin d dose before the hideously early sunsets. back home, i tended to pay for expensive gym classes, even though its possible to do the exercises i most enjoy (running, yoga, pilates, dance) for free.the positive impact on my mental and physical health has been noticeable, and i save a lot of money by meeting friends for walks or at the beach rather than always doing paid-for activities. its such a big part of the culture that no one bats an eyelid if you suggest meeting friends in a park, compared to the u.k., where going to a pub or cafe is the default.5. hygge/mysig (danish/swedish) | cozinesschances are, youve heard this term already. hygge has had a huge moment, spawning thousands of blog posts, coffee table books, and more. it refers to a special kind of comfort and coziness, and mysig is the swedish equivalent.to achieve hygge, though, you dont need to buy the expensive candles, woolen socks, or fluffy white rugs made by brands trying to jump on the bandwagon. if you speak to most scandinavians, theyll tell you that the concept is more about simply spending some low-key time with family, friends or alone, just relaxing. the swedish term fredagsmys (friday night coze) refers to an evening in with the family, most often watching trashy tv while eating junk food  and appreciating how great that can be.thats the thing with most of the trends on the list, i think: theyre actually fairly easy to achieve. at the moment, anything and everything scandinavian is massively coveted. news reports constantly scream at us that these are the happiest, most successful, most stylish, most perfect countries, prompting people to try to uncover the secrets these cold northern countries are hiding from the rest of us. but in my experience, a lot of it is just learning to appreciate the simple stuff.next: embracing pntsdrunk, the finnish way of drinking alone in your underwearwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.this article originally appeared on the financial diet.

ruth bader ginsburg, aka, the notorious rbg, is nothing if not perseverant, and no matter where your politics lie, theres no arguing that this associate supreme court justice of the u.s has overcome great obstacles (personal loss, poverty, sexism and anti-semitism to name a few) to make historic strides for womens rights and gender equality.while most people would be retired by her age, the 85-year-old feminist pioneer is committed to spending at least another five years on the bench.how does she do it? in part by maintaining a challenging fitness regimen. if youve tuned into cnn films \"rbg\" documentary featuring the two-time cancer survivor in her super diva sweatshirt working out with her longtime personal trainer bryant johnson, or checked out johnsons new book, the rbg workout: how she stays strongand you can, too, then you know these exercises arent for the faint of motivation.plank poses, squats and push-ups and are integral to the justices twice-a-week workout.regaining strength after chemotherapythough ginsburg looks like shes been kicking gym butt all her life in that cnn promo, she wasnt always in such killer shape. in fact, when she first consulted with johnson in 1999, after finishing chemotherapy for colon cancer, she was far from feeling her best.she was very [drained] after the chemotherapy, and she and her husband felt she had to start focusing on her strength, johnson, who also serves as an expert on the vitamin shoppe wellness council and has been a member of the u.s army for over 30 years, tells nbc news better. i was recommended to her by another judge id been training after she reached out to him. i talked with [ginsburg] briefly, gave her a questionnaire to fill out, and then cleared it with her doctor based on her responses. i planned out exercises we could do, which were also approved by her doctor.as we age we lose bone density and balancejohnson considered rbgs age (she was then in her sixties) when developing her signature regimen, incorporating exercises that have strong benefits for seniors.your body is like a car, and as you get older, if you dont take care of it, it wont run as well as it could, says johnson. you begin to lose balance, something that the body is always looking for in its need for homeostasis. you also lose bone density and osteoporosis sets in. the plank is a simple exercise to build back balance that will also help your posture. so many older adults are slumped over; doing planks helps that.dan defigio a personal trainer and the director of basics and beyond fitness, nutrition, and rehabilitation, who has a 25-year track record working with seniors, notes strength training and balance work as the two most crucial types of exercise for seniors.weight training not only helps seniors to build muscle, lose fat, and improve day-to-day function, but it also makes a significant improvement to bone density, defigio says. bone strength is hugely important (hip fractures are the main cause for seniors to be admitted to nursing homes). balance work is very important for fall prevention too. basic strength exercise can also help with flexibility, cardiorespiratory function and ease arthritis pain.rbg wont do an exercise if the purpose isnt cleardespite designing a workout targeted for senior health, and getting the medical clearance needed, johnsons workout wasnt an immediate sell to rbg.when i showed it to her she looked at me like i was stuck on stupid and locked on dumb, johnson recalls, chuckling. i broke everything down simple as a shotgun so she would see why these exercises were beneficial.this is a woman who doesnt waste her time, and she is still quick to put johnson on the spot when introduced to a new exercise or add-on.with [ginsburg], i always have to prove the method to my madness, says johnson. take the multipurpose exercise at the very end of the book. she needed to know why she had to do that. i said, justice, if you cant do this one exercise, you would need a nurse 24/7. she looked at me to defend my statement. i had her sit on the [exercise] bench, handed her a weight ball, and had her toss to me with both hands 10 times. i said, youre doing this because the moment you cannot [gather the strength] to get off a toilet you lose independence. we do it at the end of session because when you have to go to the bathroom it doesnt matter if youre tired.even when shes been working all night rbg still shows upafter nearly 20 years of evolving to the workout in her name, rbg has mastered the plank and other difficult poses (not to mention weight-lifting and balance ball routines), but consistency and patience have been pivotal to her success. she didnt dive into crunches but instead built up to them slowly and safely.we started off doing crunches by bringing knees and elbows together like a clam and id try to push them apart, johnson says. once we did that for a while i started having her do the planks. she doesnt like the planks too much. also pistol squats, where she stands and lifts one leg [at a time] and i hold her arms. she doesnt care for them, but she doesnt fight me because she realizes how much this helps.ginsburg also realizes that some days she wont be up to the most vigorous version of her workout. thats okay. she does what she can  but she never bails.before you can do any exercise you have to show up both mentally and physically, which she always does, says johnson. sometimes shes been working all night and hasnt slept. so we adjust it a bit, maybe skip the stability ball and use the bench instead. but she always shows up.the workouts are a great way for rbg to unplug from workrbg shows up for her bodys health, sure, but likely also for her peace of mind.the workouts help her because she is so focused on the law all the time, says johnson. but when shes with me she doesnt think about it. she turns off the brain and works on her body. this keeps her refreshed so she can go back to the law having had a break.before starting these exercises get a trainer and doctors clearancethe rbg workout is a great regimen, but those interested, particularly seniors or people recovering from a serious illness as rbg was when she began, are advised not to jump in without consulting their doctor and working with a personal trainer.in the beginning i always recommend someone to help and coach you, says johnson. get clearance from your doctor, find a certified personal trainer and tell them what you want to gain. if you dont like what theyre offering, get a different one. you have to trust that person, and they have to remember that its never about them; its about you. they have to say, how can i adjust my exercises to help the client and celebrate their victory? if you hate something, its okay not to do it, just find an alternative.try these fitness routines10 core exercises that are better for your back (and body) than crunches5 exercises you can perform anywhere, anytimea 10-minute cardio workout you can do at home5 exercises that will strengthen your back and reduce pain8 exercises trainers never do (and what to do instead)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

homeowners insurance costs an average of $1,083 annually across the us  but that number varies widely from state to state. for example, annual premiums in florida average $2,055, while policyholders in oregon pay just $574.its difficult to nail down exact policy pricing because multiple factors go into your specific calculation, says angela orbann, vice president of personal insurance products at travelers insurance. which state you live in is a big one  coastal homes come with different risks than those located in the midwest, for example  but your insurer will also consider the size, age and characteristics of your house, prior losses and features that qualify you for discounts or credits.insurance companies offer policy discounts in the form of credits or reduced premiums for home upgrades that could minimize the need to file a claim as well as the dollar amount paid out for claims that do come through. basically, it costs insurers less to reduce premium prices than it does to pay for damages and losses.some of these home improvement projects are expensive upfront, which means it could take years for insurance discounts to match what you spend on the upgrade. however, reducing the cost of your insurance is just one of the advantages of making the investment. a new roof or storm-resistant windows, for example, could save you thousands of dollars in damages in the event of a hurricane or hailstorm, while home security can stop a burglar in his tracks.these devices are protection that will save you from the pain of a loss, so theyre good preventative measures in addition to making sure you have sufficient insurance coverage, says jenny naughton, executive vice president at chubb personal risk services.here are four upgrades to consider  and how theyll pay off over time.home securitya home security system is one of the simplest upgrades homeowners can make to reduce both policy costs and the risk of loss due to burglary, accidents and storms. home security generally falls under insurance companies protective device discounts and may include everything from door sensors and smoke alarms to centrally monitored systems that automatically notify emergency personnel if a problem arises.home security systems cost $685-$994 on average to install, and monitoring services range from $20 to $70 per month. there are a number of diy, self-installation systems that wont require a hefty installation fee, though you will pay for the cost of the equipment. you can also track some systems and devices yourself from your smartphone, but youre likely to qualify for the largest discount with third-party monitoring.insurers report that homeowners can save around 10% on their policies for installing home security, which adds up to $108 annually based on average premium costs. because monitoring is an ongoing monthly cost, youre unlikely to recoup the total amount spent. however, the average loss due to burglary was $2,361 in 2016, which makes the upfront cost of home security sound a bit more appealing.water shutoff devicesaccording to data from the insurance information institute (iii), water damage accounted for nearly 30% of losses in 2016, and the average loss between 2012 and 2016 totaled $9,633. devices that cut off a homes water supply when they detect damage to pipes, water lines and plumbing can prevent significant damage and save homeowners an average of 3% on their premiums, according to trevor chapman, a farmers insurance spokesman.water leak sensors are another category of protection. however, they merely detect moisture in places where it shouldnt be, such as behind a washing machine or toilet, and dont actively cut water flow. theyre useful but unlikely to qualify you for the same level of discount.water shutoff devices cost $174-$208, on average, to install. with an average annual discount of $32, it would take between 5.4 and 6.5 years to pay off and start saving you money.storm-safe windowswind and hail was the number one cause of loss in 2016, according to the iii  about 1 in 40 homes has a claim in this category each year. one of the main upgrades to prevent wind damage, particularly in hurricane-prone areas, is storm-safe windows: impact-resistant glass and roll-down shutters, for example.wind-related discounts and credits vary widely and may only be applicable if you live in a state with high wind risk or meet specific retrofit requirements. naughton says that those who live in wind-prone areas could see a 10-15% credit on their policy for wind protection upgrades.storm windows cost an average of $4,656 to install. with an average annual discount of $108-$162, it would take awhile to recoup the cost from the upgrade alone (were talking between 28 and 43 years), but if you do live in an a high-risk area, it could save you thousands in repairs should a bad storm damage your home.upgraded roofinga new roof is a significant  and expensive  undertaking. however, a bad roof can cost you a lot. if your roof leaks, youre likely to face rotting wood and interior water damage. if its weak, hail and high-impact storms can break through.insurers offer several types of discounts for roof upgrades. one is an impact-resistant roof discount for roofs that protect against lightning and hail. another is a roof age discount, which applies to homes with newer roofs.roof discounts may range from 5% to 35%. the average roof costs $7,484  your discount would save you between $54 and $380 annually, which means it would take between 20 and, well, a lot of years to pay back.of course, the more your insurance policy costs, the greater the impact these upgrades will have on your savings. experts stress, however, that even if homeowners dont recoup every dollar spent, these upgrades are still valuable when it comes to risk reduction. policy savings are a nice bonus, not the primary reason to add these protections to your property.when  and how to upgrade your homenaughton says that the best time for homeowners to make major upgrades is when theyre already building or renovating. while water shutoff devices can be fairly simple to set up, replacing a roof is likely to be more invasive.before you make any voluntary upgrades, however, check with your insurance agent about how they will impact your policy coverage and costs. you may be required to use certain materials or meet specific certification standards to be eligible, and not all discounts are available in every state. to get relevant credits or premium reductions once youve completed a project, submit receipts or proof of purchase to your agent.orbann also advises reviewing your policy with your agent on an annual basis to determine what additional discounts you qualify for  and to be proactive rather than reactive to reduce your risk.one of the most important ways to save is to perform general maintenance around the property to prevent damage before it actually occurs, she says. if you remain loss-free, typically theres a significant loss-free discount that would apply to your policy.more tricks and tips for a better homehow to survive a power outagethe kitchen is the germiest room. heres how to deep clean everything.how often to clean (almost) every appliance in your homehow to spruce up your home on a budgetwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if youve ever struggled with your weight, youve probably blamed your metabolism. and its an easy scapegoat because you only have so much control over it.youre blessed or cursed with a certain level of metabolism, confirms dr. larry cheskin, associate professor at the johns hopkins university school of medicine, and the johns hopkins bloomberg school of public health, director of the johns hopkins weight management center and the clinical research director of hopkins global obesity prevention center. to start, simply knowing someones gender can clue you in about their metabolism. women have lower metabolic rate than men because theyre usually shorter and weigh less, so every step they take takes less energy than someone of a larger size. this is why women often bemoan the fact the fact that men seem to lose weight more easily or eat whatever they want and still lose weight.how your metabolism worksin laymans terms, your metabolism is your rate of burning energy, and the calories youll need to consume to expend that energy. your metabolic rate is how many calories do you need in a day to expend the energy to live in terms of how many calories you will burn. you need more energy to run than to sleep, but your body also needs energy to breathe and for your heart to beat, explains cheskin. this is why calories factor into weight loss  it all boils down to consuming fewer calories than you expend. to get to the magic number of base calories you need, youll have to factor in your height, weight, age and gender.by measuring your breath, your doctor or a medical professional can measure your resting metabolic rate by measuring how much carbon dioxide you exhale, and how many calories you need at rest, and how many you need to eat to keep yourself going.metabolism slows with agegillian mueller goddard, m.d., endocrinologist at park avenue endocrinology &amp; nutrition pllc in new york city, says aging slows metabolism  especially for women, due to decreased lean muscle mass as we age. women often note that their metabolisms slow dramatically during their late 40s and 50s. they have to really adjust their eating habits and exercise routines to maintain a healthy weight, due to changes in estrogen levels during perimenopause, says goddard.sometimes, your metabolism is off for another reasonother than age, there are a few chronic health conditions that can affect metabolism. hyper- and hypothyroidism are conditions caused by an overactive or underactive thyroid gland. fortunately, both conditions can be treated with medication. polycystic ovary syndrome, or pcos, is another health condition experienced by women that is often associated with insulin resistance and a slower metabolism.goddard says typical signs of a sluggish metabolism include lack of appetite, unexplained weight gain and generally feeling sluggish or slow. people sometimes also fell like their thinking is foggy, or that they are requiring more sleep than previously to feel rested, she explains.on the other side of the coin, if your metabolism is a little over amped, goddard says symptoms include increased appetite, unexplained weight loss or feeling like you can eat anything and not gain or maintain your weight. some people find they require less sleep and may have difficulty staying asleep. others notice increased sweating, she says.exercise is keyphysical activity is the one thing people understand they should do to boost their metabolism, but often dont. muscles have more density than fat and burn more calories when you arent using them, cheskin explains. it doesnt mean you have to go to a gym. it burns more calories to stand instead of sit, sit instead of lie. it all adds up. resistance and strength training help your body to burn more calories, but it doesnt mean you have to lift huge weights. you can use your own body weight to engage your muscles.goddard agrees. exercise is always the best way to jump start a sluggish metabolism, she says. both aerobic exercise and resistance training increase metabolism in different ways and both are important. aerobic exercise burns calories while you are doing it and increases your metabolic rate for several hours afterward. resistance training increases lean muscle mass, which is more metabolically active than fat, even when we are at rest.what about diets that claim to boost metabolism?special diets, like intermittent fasting, claim to boost metabolism by fasting and restricting meals to certain windows of time. but do they really work? cheskin took part in a review of alternate day fasting diets that concluded they work about as well as any other reasonably healthy diet.though goddard says caffeine and spicy foods like cayenne pepper are reported to boost metabolism, the boost is marginal, at best. if these foods worked to increase metabolism, we would all be eating them in huge quantities, she explains.ultimately, cheskin says losing weight always boils down to eating fewer calories than you burn consistently, over a period of time. diet fads come and go, but what diet will you stick with for the longer term? as long as it isnt crazy restrictive or unhealthy, the diet you stick with is the best diet, says cheskin.so, like most things concerning weight loss, theres no magic bullet when it comes to metabolism other than eating well, exercise, patience and perseverance. mostly perseverance.weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weight

until he suddenly got sick with a life-threatening bacterial infection, sam, our lovable chihuahua-terrier mix, was as healthy as a horse (excuse the expression). luckily, the emergency veterinarians at the local animal hospital knew what to do and saved sams life.my wife and i knew the bill for five days of round-the-clock care was going to be expensive, but we didnt have to worry about that because sam had health insurance. the total bill came to $10,000, which we had to pay before taking sam home. within a week, we had a check for $9,000 from the insurance company.just like the human members of the family, our pets can get sick or injured. and when they do, the vet bills can be staggering, even prohibitive. and yet, most pet parents in the u.s. dont have coverage.dr. jason nicholas, a practicing veterinarian in portland, ore. who runs the website preventivevet.com, says its not uncommon for people to skip treatment, or in the worst-case situations, have their pet euthanized because of financial limitations.\"and it breaks your heart, especially when its a treatable condition, and its because of the money that they cant do it, nicholas told nbc news better. there are definitely cases where people who can afford $50 a month for insurance, cant afford $8,000 in the moment.is pet insurance a smart purchase?checkbook.org, an independent, non-profit consumer organization that rates products and services, took a deep dive into pet insurance and found that it has improved over the last 15 years. most policies now cover hereditary and congenital problems, chronic problems and even alternative medicine.but from a purely financial standpoint, checkbook concluded that pet insurance is not worth it for many people, especially those who arent willing to bear large vet bills should their pets suffer serious injuries or major diseases.checkbook gathered premium quotes from nine pet insurance plans for woof, a medium-size male mixed-breed dog and found that even the best insurance plans cost more in premiums than they paid out over woofs 13-year life. if woof suffered costly health problems, his owners typically came out ahead financially.if woof only needed moderate care, total out-of-pocket medical expenses without insurance would be about $9,006, checkbook estimated. total insurance premiums during that time would range from $11,397 to $23,651, depending on which company was chosen.if woof needed a lot of care, total medical expenses without insurance would be $30,210, checkbook estimated. total premiums would range between $14,342 and $20,674.checkbooks top-rated pet insurance companiescheckbook found a fundamental flaw in most, but not all plans  price hikes based on age.pet insurers often market their policies as affordable, and many are when animals are young, said kevin brasler, checkbooks executive editor. what most companies dont disclose is that their premiums rise drastically when pets get older, eventually rendering them unaffordable.as an example, coverage for a mixed-breed dog living in the san francisco area from a well-known insurance company would be just $44 per month for a puppy. but by age 8 its $106 and at age 12 its $191 per month. premiums for pure breeds often cost a lot more, sometimes twice as much as for a mixed-breed animal.what most companies dont disclose is that their premiums rise drastically when pets get older, eventually rendering them unaffordable.the premiums on most policies skyrocket as the pets get older. rates double by the time a puppy or kitten reaches 4- or 5-years-old and might actually need expensive veterinary care, brasler told nbc news better. most pet owners will understandably drop coverage once they have to pay more than $200 a month for it.picks of the litter insurance plansa record number of pets in north america, more than 2 million, were covered by insurance last year, up nearly 17 percent, according to the north american pet health insurance association.checkbook found that two companies stood out from the pack. healthy paws and trupanion offered the lowest lifetime premium costs. this is due, in large part, because they dont boost premiums as pets age.based on its extensive research, checkbook concludes: if youre going to buy pet insurance, healthy paws and trupanion are two good places to start looking.other shopping tips:make sure you understand whats not covered: pre-existing conditions are never covered. some conditions that are covered may be considered pre-existing if they develop up to a year after you enroll. most plans dont cover the diagnostic exam, just the prescribed treatment.enroll when young: coverage is typically available when a puppy or kitten is six to eight weeks old. by insuring your pet at a young age, you can avoid claim rejections for pre-existing conditions.skip coverage for wellness, preventive and elective care: buy insurance to protect against unexpected, large financial risks. annual checkups dont fit that need.when we added wellness coverage to our hypothetical pets, we found that for most policies the increased premiums were higher than the benefits wed receive; in other words, a waste of money, brasler said.the bottom linewhether to buy pet insurance is more than a financial decision; its also an emotional one.i buy insurance to make sure my pets will receive the best medical coverage possible, should they get sick or injured. and as any vet will tell you, theres no way to know if your pet is going to have moderate medical problems or serious and expensive ones.buster, our 10-year old cat, hasnt had any medical problems, thankfully. so right now, were losing money on his $600 a year insurance coverage. and thats ok. we buy insurance  auto, home, health  to cover the catastrophic. we dont want to use it.and keep in mind: our pets are living longer these days and the risk of cancer goes up as they get older. cancer treatment for a dog can easily top $13,000, according to petcarerx.com, if it involves surgery and chemo or radiation.ideally your pets get through life without any major ailments or injuries, but you never know, dr. nicholas said. things happen  accidents and illness  to every pet. and a lot of those things can be really expensive. with insurance, if the worst happens, youre covered, and you dont have to worry about the financial implications of your decisions.more on pets &amp; healthwhat your dogs behavior says about youforget what youve heard. being a cat lady is healthy.how dogs teach us to stop worrying and just be happywhy dogs are good for our health and help us cope with lifewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

in august, i stepped away from work, email and all social media. i called it a spiritual break and, for me, it was an opportunity to step back from the noise of the day-to-day and reflect on what im really seeking in life. (i wanted to make good on rumis quote, what you are seeking is seeking you.)turns out, i was seeking less busyness. less intense thinking. more calm. more connection. more wonder.wonder gets you out of your head. it feels less intense than thinking. it feels more stream of consciousness and more creative. it actually feels freeing and it allows one to connect more with oneself and others.as i set out for africa with my youngest son christopher at the beginning of august, i decided that my month would be focused on that concept of wonder.wonder is what i felt as i drove across the vast, open serengeti. i found myself wondering what it might be like to live there full time, either working in the conservation movement or working with the women i met who are trying to overcome deep poverty and build lives that their mothers could have never imagined.i went to rwanda and wondered how its people have overcome the brutality of genocide and now live in a constantly evolving state of acceptance and forgiveness. (on the last saturday of every month, they even come together as one to clean their country  the president and the people, side by side. imagine that.)i watched multiple generations living and working together and wondered how we might do more of that here in america, as well as how we might honor the matriarchs in our society as they do over there. they honor them for their strength, their wisdom and their vast life experiences.i met young women in rwanda who were studying to be leaders and who blew me away with their poise and their dreams. i watched other rwandan women working with backhoes in the fields, planting potatoes and walking with heavy loads on their heads for miles to feed their families. i wondered about their lives and i wondered how long i could really  survive living and working the way they did. (not long, i concluded.)i climbed into the mountains of the jungle and sat face-to-face with the silverback gorillas. i wondered about their lives as i watched the mothers nurse their babies, while their other kids played across the tops of the trees.in my time in africa, i wondered about all that i didnt know (which is a lot). i wondered why it is that we (you, me, all of us) spend our time running around trying to amass followers, trying to stay relevant and thinking that we have to comment on this or that. i wondered why we worry that we might disappear or become invisible to others and to ourselves if we dont.over these past few weeks, i really found myself embarking on wonder and embracing the enormity of it. unlike thinking, wonder doesnt force you to come to a conclusion. it allows the mind to imagine, to create, to simply roam free, just like the majestic animals that i encountered in the vast serengeti.i know it can be hard to allow yourself the time and/or space to wonder. i also get that not everyone can travel to africa. but, what i came to realize during my journey abroad and back home was that once i embraced the concept of wonder, i was able to see it everywhere.it was in my garden. it was in my childrens faces. it was in my friends eyes as i shared with her what i had seen and what i had felt.it was in me, too. yes, like a child, i found myself marveling at my own life. i found myself marveling at nature, at the beauty of my kids, at the way i felt when i heard music. i even marveled at the way i reorganized my house, throwing stuff out and getting rid of clutter that didnt serve me anymore.when i was in africa, i watched the academy award-winning film out of africa. i wanted my son to see it, as the film had made a huge impact on me when it first came out so many years ago. i remembered feeling a deep connection to the woman played by meryl streep, who left her rather uptight upbringing to live more freely on a farm in africa.watching it again, i found myself really struck by a line at the beginning of the film. its when meryls character recounts the gift that the love of her life gave to her. he gave her, she said, the gift of seeing the world through gods eyes. that line rocked me.my short trip to africa allowed me to see the world anew through gods eyes. stepping back and away allowed me to step into life with a new sense of awe and wonder.i write this to you with the hope that your summer also afforded you moments of wonder and awe. if it did not, then perhaps you might ask yourself how you might incorporate those feelings into your life.here are a few tips from me:dont worry your time away wondering about everything going on in the news. (trust me, wondering whether our president did this or that, or who really wrote that op-ed, or whether the house will become democratic in the fall, or whether the catholic church will right itself  it all just batters the mind. instead, get calm, get clear and get centered. thats where your truth lies. use your voice from that space and place. and, for gods sake, vote this fall. its a travesty not to.)unfollow people or publications online that inflame, irritate or agitate you. i did that in august and it truly helped me get clear and calm.instead, open your eyes and challenge yourself to see the world through gods eyes. look at yourself with compassion and kindness  use a loving voice, not a critical one. look at that person sitting next to you in the coffee shop and wonder about their life. ill bet their dreams and their struggles are a lot like yours.look into the eyes of your child, your partner, or others that you love and wonder about their inner lives. make an effort to get to know them and to connect with that part of them.embark on walk and talks with friends. notice how they make you feel. (ill bet they make you feel connected.)start hosting sunday dinners. gather those you love and invite over those whom youre trying to get to know, or who you know could use some company. sunday dinners broaden ones sense of family. they create bonds. they can unite generations. they build community. they promote love, and yes, they inspire wonder. (send me photos from your sunday dinners and well share them in my sunday paper newsletter.)i continued my sunday dinners in august and im so glad that i did because, on one special evening, my cousin christopher came over with his new girlfriend. we laughed, reminisced about our childhood growing up (which was insane), remarked how much we loved each other, and shared how grateful we were to have each other. we also spoke about how blessed we were that our kids were friends. i told him how proud i was of his work in the sobriety space and how many lives he had helped along the way. im so glad i had this dinner because just this week  when he was so looking forward to his life  christopher suddenly had a massive heart attack and passed away. he was my age and his death has rocked me. he is my third close friend to die this year, and i wonder why.i dont know about you, but i have spent a lot of anxious time and energy over the years wondering why i am here and what it is that im supposed to really be doing. am i supposed to be a journalist? am i supposed to be an activist? am i supposed to run for office? am i supposed to cure alzheimers? am i? am i? am i?today, i hope youll imagine your life 10-15 years down the road. what will allow you to feel the way you want to feel? what will bring you relief? what will let you breathe in deeply and know that you lived your own meaningful life and that you allowed others to do the same? imagine someone saying about you, he/she helped me feel loved and see the world through gods eyes.when you look back, i doubt youll count how many likes you received on social media. instead, i bet youll recount all the people you touched, as well as those who touched you. i bet youll reflect on how you honored your dreams, and who stood by you along the way.so today, go ahead and take a small step towards your truth and let me know what you think. better yet, let me know what you feel.this essay first appeared in maria shrivers sunday paper, a free weekly newsletter offering news and views for a meaningful life. to sign up, click here.

last february, lynn r. zakeri, a licensed clinical social worker, checked her phone during a break between clients as she normally does. she had a string of text messages from her son, then a freshman in high school, reading: im ok. we are evacuating. i love you.her sons school was on lockdown, and there were no immediate answers as to why. zakeri soon learned that there had been a bomb threat (fortunately a false one), but at the time, parents rushing to the school assumed an active shooter was involved. the parkland shooting had happened just a week prior.everything turned out fine, but for a second, i was that mom and he was that kid who experienced that real fear, says zakeri. i still get choked up when i read [those texts]. i had missed a bunch of them [while in session]. as a parent, imagine seeing this and not being caught up?many parents are likely imagining this and other terrifying scenarios pertaining to their kids safety at school, a new poll by gallup suggests. the research found that 35 percent of parents fear for childs safety at school, up from 24 percent in 2017, and 20 percent of parents noted that their child has expressed fears. school shootings, along with bullying, physical and/or sexual harassment is a dominant subject of their worries.start by putting things into perspectivetheres legitimate reasoning behind these concerns, as school shootings were a monthly occurrence during the first part of the 2018 school year. how do you as a parent cope with the fear that your childs school could be next?consider the fact that despite the rise of deadly incidents involving guns at schools, statistically, these tragedies are rare. that may be hard to reckon with when your own child is being subjected to active shooter drills on campus, and the increasingly regular tragedies that do occur; still, the odds of your child being a victim of a shooting at their school are very, very small.i would underscore that even though these types of shootings are happening they are still very rare occurrences, says daniel webster, director of johns hopkins center for gun policy and research. children are safer in school than perhaps any other setting as it relates to fatal violence, but the nature of these shootings, which are unpredictable and highly publicized, generate understandable fears.think of all the safe school days your child enjoysdr. jerry bubrick, senior clinical psychologist, anxiety disorders center at the child mind institute encourages anxious parents to think of the chances of a school shooting much like you think of the chances of a plane crash. it could happen. it does happen. but your chances of being involved in one are so incredibly slim.any time a plane crashes, we hear about it heavily, but we dont hear about all the planes that are just fine, says dr. bubrick. the same applies to the horribly tragic school shootings. on that same day hundreds of thousands of schools functioned safely. thats powerful and needs to be taken into perspective.talk positively to yourself, as you would to a friend you trustone of the roots of anxiety, bubrick notes, is the fear of the unknown. we frantically ask ourselves, what if? we may instead try to focus on trusting the knowledge we do have and cultivating confidence that, in any scenario, we will get through it.i read a quote recently along the lines of, people are happier when they talk well of themselves to themselves, says bubrick. that resonates a lot for me working with anxious people. we tend to give really good advice to others when theyre worried. we say something like, youre loving and resourceful and you will figure this out because youre strong. to ourselves, we tend to say things like, im a worried wreck. i cant do this. i think we need to be as confident in our own abilities to handle absolutely anything. walking around thinking what if and worried about failing will only have a negative impact on your mood, self-esteem, and possibly be [an outlook mirrored] by your kids, who like sponges, absorb your coping styles.communicating with your kids helps zap your (and their) anxietypart of clearing up our anxiety in this cases lies in openly communicating with our kids, and keeping a kind of poker face about our own fears when doing so.i talk often with parents about these conversations not being lectures, says bubrick. that means not leading them down a path of worry. so instead of saying, are you scared of a school shooting? say, hey what do you think of what is happening at school? ask a question, listen to the response, validate [any concerns] by saying theyre understandable. our job as parents when kids are little is to fix and protect. we put things on drawers so they dont hurt themselves, etc. but as they get older we become more like consultants. our job becomes to help them find solutions to themselves, and this starts around third grade. if something is [worrying] them, ask, what are some things you can do? get them to give ideas and then give your input. gameplay together about what the plan is.talk it out with other adultsyou may want to keep your anxieties guarded from your kids so as to not trouble them, but that doesnt mean you should keep your feelings locked up  not by a stretch.vent to your spouse or to your friends, to anyone you trust, says dr. laura dabney, a psychologist specializing in relationships. letting emotions out is how you make them dissipate. the key is to not let your anxiety come between you and the child. if you think your emotions are beyond the norm, going on for beyond a few months, talk to [a mental health professional] about it further.dr. dabney also encourages parents to let kids vent, too, and to not try to distract them into feeling better.children can get very specific when discussing their fears, [as in saying] i am afraid of getting blood splattered on me. you want that. thats them getting it out of their head and off their chest. if they cry, let them cry until theyre done. dont interrupt with, lets go do something fun. just be supportive and mentally pat yourself on the back because their emoting will help get them through.focus on what makes you feel calmsimple acts of self-care can be of great help, too.i recommend people think about what has helped them in the past and double down on that, says dr. dabney. if you are helped by meditating alone a couple days a week, do it every day with a group as that can feel more supportive. if information is soothing to you, go to the schools administration office and talk to them about their plan and how theyre prepared for [gun violence]. do what you do to self-soothe and dont be shy to go the extra mile.youre doing the best you can. believe it.and what about zakeri, the therapist who faced the horrific scare that her son was in danger at school? did she just go back to normal? yes, she did  and gladly.i spend my life and my career teaching that what if questions are anxiety-driven and not productive, zakeri says. there are things i have control over, and there are things that i do the best i can, and with our busy lives with work, school and sports, believing i am doing the best i can keeps me going a whole lot more than what if the worst happens? i do my part as a parent and i trust the school is doing their part in the follow up. i continue to trust. [my son and i] talk about how to evacuate, we talk about what to do if, but we talk about it with the confidence that he will be safe.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

with labor day in the rearview mirror and fall right around the corner, it really feels like summer  and vacation season  is coming to a close. for many, summer is the time for a much-needed break from the nine-to-five grind, which not only boosts productivity when youre back at the office, but also helps maintain a healthy mental state and prevents burnout. but if you havent gotten around to taking a vacation yet, that doesnt mean youve missed the window to plan a getaway to disconnect and relax.who says you need to cash in all your vacation days at once? in fact, according to experts, it seems that taking short vacations throughout the year may be more beneficial to your mental well-being than taking one long vacation.jonathan alpert, a manhattan-based psychotherapist, executive performance coach and author of be fearless: change your life in 28 days, says a short vacation can be anything from a long weekend to a few days off in the middle of the workweek. and from a well-being perspective, these mini breaks work wonders because you wont run into many of the issues that typically come up with planning longer trips.clients often tell me they want to go as far away as possible for as long as possible, he says. but then it takes a day to get to their destination, they run into issues accessing their email in a remote place, and inevitably, they get so stressed planning it, that they arent able to truly disconnect.alpert makes the case that taking one long trip is similar to binge sleeping. when you dont get enough sleep during the week, its tempting to use the weekend to make up for all those lost hours. and while you may feel well rested afterwards, binge sleeping doesnt provide the same health benefits as getting a full eight hours of shuteye every day. the same idea can be applied to vacations: taking one long trip may feel great when you do it, but the happiness boost is short-lived, so taking multiple shorter trips throughout the year allows for a handful of opportunities to get into that vacation mindset.past research has suggested that eight days may be the ideal length of a vacation to maximize relaxation  with happiness peaking after this amount of time away. but a vacation of this length also comes with its drawbacks. youre likely using up a large chunk of your paid time off (if you are even able to get away for this long), not to mention the expense of a trip of this length and the mountain of work thats likely piled up upon your return.it seems many agree: weekend trips are becoming increasingly popular. at the end of last 2017, enterprise rent-a-car surveyed 1,000 americans ages 25 and up and found that 85 percent of them planned to take weekend trips in 2018. this number is up seven percent from the previous year, illustrating a growing interest in escaping from the daily grind on a more frequent basis. nearly half the people surveyed cited stress as a top reason for wanting to take a weekend trip. but the most striking conclusion from the survey is that almost everyone said they wanted a true escape  no checking emails, no scrolling through social media and no reading or watching the news. according to alpert, taking short trips throughout the year may be the most realistic way to accomplish this.so for those who have yet to plan a well-deserved break, heres why you should consider using whats left of your pto to take a few long weekend trips before the year is out.theyre less stressful to planplanning a long vacation is bound to be stressful. according to a 2018 survey by project: time off, the logistical hassles of traveling often deter people from taking vacations, but with a three- to four-day trip, the logistics become much simpler. you can be more spontaneous, and since you dont have time to travel too far from home, you can drive to your destination instead of having to worry about booking flights months in advance. another plus: no long flights, means no jet lag.on a shorter trip, you wont be expecting an inbox full of emails to check when you get back, so its easier to let go and unwind.the survey also shows that heavy workloads and a fear of looking replaceable at work discourage people from taking days off. if youre away for 10 days, sometimes it can take people a few days to get out of the work mode and settle into vacation mode, alpert says. what i also find with a lot of my clients is that, a day or two before the vacation is set to end, they start to get really stressed about going back to work. on a shorter trip, you wont be expecting an inbox full of emails to check when you get back, so its easier to let go and unwind on your vacation.youll save moneyone of the biggest perks of a short vacation is that its cheaper than a longer one. you wont have to pay for an expensive flight or multiple nights at a hotel. alpert says he actually started suggesting smaller vacations to his clients in 2008 when money was an issue during the great recession.its more likely that youll disconnectwhether we admit it or not, many of us are addicted to our devices, with the average person touching their phone 80 times a day, according to recent research  and its affecting our health. studies show that the light waves from our phones and tablets throw our bodys internal clock out of whack, disrupting our sleep. another study conducted by harvard business review found that the use of facebook was negatively associated with overall well-being, specifically our mental health.going on a short digital detox from time to time can help you combat the harmful effects. a recent study published in the journal of social psychology found that those who stayed off facebook for just five days exhibited lower levels of the stress hormone cortisol than those who didnt.given the current political climate and 24/7 news cycle, people are constantly searching for ways to escape from reality, but its easier said than done. its hard for people to disconnect for 10 days, alpert says. three days is easier to accomplish. its a more attainable goal. when you only take a couple days away, youre setting yourself up for success.youll have more to look forward to throughout the yearif you spend all your vacation days on a two-week summer trip, youll be left with 50 weeks of work without a break. but if you take multiple short trips throughout the year, youll have many getaways to look forward to and youll be more motivated to work harder when youre at the office. a study published in the journal applied research in quality of life found that the biggest boost in happiness associated with a vacation comes during the anticipation of the trip, which was shown to increase happiness for 8 weeks prior. (one study found that happiness makes you 12 percent more productive, so the excitement of an upcoming trip may even help you churn out more work).so much of what brings happiness and pleasure to people is being able to plan and look forward to creating memories, alpert says. if you have more of those in a given year, its only going to help people to feel happier.more travel tips for a weekend getawaysave $520 (or more) on your next flight with these 4 airfare hackshow to pack a carry-on (so you dont need to check a bag)5 ways to make your vacation worth ithow to find the best travel rewards credit card for youwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if figuring out what to make for dinner each night stresses you out more than going to work in the morning, meal delivery kits can seem like a total godsend. for a fee, subscribers receive a single recipe and all the ingredients needed to prepare it in an insulated box, rendering mealtime a no-brainer for those whod rather order food than cook it.these kits are a great way out of meal ruts. i made a few items i wouldnt have thought of making, says kerrie lynch, from brooklyn, ny. its great for when you dont want to think or shop, or when you get back from vacation.for some, these kits can be cost prohibitive. julie taylor of glendale, ca recently put her meal kit subscription on hold because, at $72 per week for 3 meals for 2 (plus $6 shipping), she felt the indulgence was getting rather expensive. however, if the price were more palatable, taylor says she would start ordering them again. if money were no object, i would still totally do it for convenience sake, she said.after all, this business is built on convenience and for many, convenience trumps cost. its definitely affected how i shop  i buy less and waste less, says amy oztan of brooklyn, ny. i dont know if its actually saved me money. im not a person who budgets. for me, the savings are in time and aggravation.gianna roma, clinical registered dietitian at beth israel deaconess medical center, says these types of meal kits can also help people to follow a healthier, well-balanced diet. services like these reduce time required for food shopping, meal preparation  and provide step-by-step directions that are easy to follow and can help with portion control. they may also expand culinary horizons and get people to experiment with foods they may not have had the confidence to previously, she says.we polled some readers and did a little research to share what to expect from some of the most popular delivery service contenders.better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.hellofresh$7.87 to $8.99 per serving, plus shippingavailable in 10 markets and rapidly expandingchoose from the veggie plan ($8.99/serving) for 2 or 4 people 3x per week, the classic for 2-4 people 2,3 &amp; 4 days per week ($8.99/serving), and the family plan ($7.87/serving) for 4 people, 2 or 3 days per week, prices before discounts$5.99 shipping fee (before special offers)choose from up to 15 recipes per weekseafood is sustainable, meat and veggies come from family-owned farmsselect the recipes you wantskip weeks you wont usehellofresh promises dinner in 30 minutes or less with low or no prep ingredients. of all the feedback we received, hellofresh was overwhelmingly positive, with plated coming in at a close second. why? an abundance of easy to follow, family-friendly recipes that were easy to execute well and flexibility. on the menu: korean beef bibimbap with zucchini, mushrooms and carrots, and hot honey chicken with barbecue-roasted potatoes and buttery broccoli.plated$47.80 to 79.60 per week, shipping is free over $60available in 95 percent of the u.s.select the recipes you wantcan be tailored to some dietary restrictionsorder up to 4 servings per night and up to 4 nights per weekprices range from $47.80 - $79.60 per week before special offersshipping free for plans over $60skip weeks you need to without chargeuses antibiotic free meats and seasonal hand-packed produceone fan we polled says he never had a boring or bad meal from this service and though hes not a chef by any means, the recipes are described as delicious and fail-safe. among their offerings: chinese pork lettuce wraps and greek chicken panzanella.blue apron $51.94 to $71.92 per week, shipping is freefood is antibiotic, sustainable and gmo freeorder for 2 or 4 people, 2-4 times a weekprices range from $51.94 - $71.92 before discount offers, shipping is free for mealsskip meals you wont eat without chargewine &amp; gift cards also availableaccording to our feedback, blue aprons meals were tasty, but the recipes were a bit more complex, making them perfect for the more adventurous cook. among the recipes offered: corn and goat cheese quiche with butter lettuce and ranch dressing, and dukkah-crusted pork roast with roasted cauliflower and tahini dressing.gobble$71.94 to $143.88 per week, plus shippingavailable throughout the u.s.prices range from $71.94 - $143.88 per week for 2-4 meals, 3x per week before special offers (didnt see one), plus $6.99 shipping (shipping free for first box)add sides, soups and desserts for an extra feevegetarian options availableselect the recipes you wantcan change or modify delivery datesgift cards availablemake dinner in 15 minutes with one pan is gobbles credo. taylor praised the easy-to-make, gourmet and trendier recipe offerings from this meal service purveyor, but considered the service costly. among the recipes offered: thai basil chicken with jasmine rice and parmesan crusted chicken with lemon basil orzo salad.what to look forso, if you decide to take the plunge, which should you choose? most of the people we asked had tried a few before settling on the one they liked best. fortunately, many of these companies offer free trial weeks or discounts to get you started. health-wise, roma advises choosing a meal-kit delivery service with dietitians in charge of the menu, or picking meals plentiful in vegetables, seafood or poultry, versus one heavy in cheeses or meats. besides, as roma says, after a long day a balanced meal that is easy to prepare at home beats a fried greasy option at a fast food restaurant any day.more healthy eating advicebad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when a photo of former \"cosby show\" star geoffrey owens working at a trader joes in new jersey was recently published online by the daily mail, the public job-shaming was quick to kick in. so too, was praise from fellow actors who posted messages of support using the hashtag #actorswithdayjobs  he even landed a job offer from tyler perry.owens, who still works as an actor, was working as a cashier at trader joes because of the flexibility it offered. he appeared on \"good morning america\" to address the matter and defend himself, stating: \"there is no job that is better than another job. it might pay better. it might have better benefits. it might look better on a resume and a paper. but actually, its not better. every job is worthwhile and valuable. if we have a rethinking about that because of whats happened to me, that would be great.putting an end to job-shaminglets pause there and do that rethinking, because, as owens says, its time to stop job-shaming, job-pitying and job-judging, and instead highlight the dignity of work, and the fact that no one can rightly say if one type of job is better than another for anyone but themselves.ryan werner, a 33-year-old living in cuba city, wisconsin, holds what he says is often thought of by outsiders as a \"s--- job.\" in his sixth year as a cook at a montessori preschool, werner works 32 hours a week, bringing in $11.25 an hour.and its \"the best job [hes] ever had.\"\"i work side jobs doing guitar lessons and playing in pit orchestras to survive,\" says werner, who is also a writer. \"but being around a bunch of super young kids and teaching them things, [like that] having two moms or two dads is totally cool, dont touch people if they dont want to be touched, and all sorts of other good things about being strong is so important to me.\"werner says his mom is always sending him leads for \"better\" jobs, as her way of looking out for him. \"i always have to tell her, mom, i have a job that i love, that i dont stress out about, and that i dont bring home with me. sometimes its hard to convince people that i found a sort of happiness in labor that doesnt involve my savings account.\"success is individualvicki salemi, a career expert at monster, would likely applaud werner for doing what he loves and paying the bills, no matter what others may think.there should be no shame in your game. what defines a good job? we must remove judgment from society and ask ourselves what that is for us, salemi tells nbc news better. as a former corporate recruiter, ive seen too many people stay in jobs too long when theyre unhappy. a job that has great prestige and looks awesome on paper can be miserable [in actuality].though service jobs and on-demand gigs tend to be snubbed as stepping stones or gap-fillers while embarking on a more clear-cut career, salemi finds that many people are relishing the flexibility these jobs can offer.there should be no shame in your game. what defines a good job? we must remove judgment from society and ask ourselves what that is for us.often these jobs and gigs allow people to pursue their other passions like acting, music or standup comedy. sometimes people, say in the restaurant or grocery business, love the job and move up into management.these jobs werent always seen as not enough, and they shouldnt be nowsaba waheed, research director at the ucla labor center with expertise on low-wage service industries and sharing economy businesses, notes that historically labor-intensive jobs werent always relegated to the bottom of the economic food chain, and that the sector is seeing a shift (albeit a slow, piecemeal one) toward restoring its perceivable value.these [low-wage] jobs in themselves havent changed over time, the job itself is what it always was: labor. but in the 40s and 50s, these jobs were more protected, with strong unions, government oversight, and on the factory floor you could have a pension and buy a house. waheed says. what has happened over time is that these jobs have been eroded of these things. you take away the pensions, you make the 40-hour work week [akin to] part-time and you have people juggling jobs. thats devaluing at the dignity level.this devaluing that started with the stripping of unions and other benefits has escalated with the growing inclination among big corporations to get the cheapest labor at the cheapest costs.we need to bring dignity back to this work by valuing it ourselves and by thinking about demanding that people should not be working for subpar wages, says waheed. if the conditions of the work improve, the dignity for the person does, too.waheed observes that employers in service industries are starting to be more thoughtful about creating workplaces that foster integrity.beyond the flexibility owens was looking for, companies like trader joes offer their employees benefits like medical and dental, paid time off and a retirement plan.the question to ask: does this job meet my needs?restoring employee empowerment to service jobs may be slow to happen on a broad level, but people working in this diverse sector or considering a transition into it, ought to focus on their own wants and needs, which may go well beyond the pursuit of wealth.as a society we put too much value on the status of money, and i dont think thats right, says cheryl carleton, phd, assistant professor of economics and director of the womens professional network at villanova universitys school of business.a good job gives you what you need, and thats what matters.we worship money because thats how we measure things. but money really isnt all there is, carleton adds. some jobs give you [less salary,] more flexibility, or less time commitment so you can focus on your family or care-taking if thats what you want. a good job gives you what you need, and thats what matters.more from betterhow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

you found your dream home, but can you safely afford it? before you commit to the biggest financial decision of your life, consider the 28/36 rule.the rule is used by lenders to determine what you can afford, according to ramit sethi, best-selling author of i will teach you to be rich.its used by lenders, but its also a really helpful tool for us as individuals to decide how much debt we can afford, sethi tells nbc news.the rule is simple. when considering a mortgage, make sure your:maximum household expenses wont exceed 28 percent of your gross monthly income;total household debt doesnt exceed more than 36 percent of your gross monthly income (known as your debt-to-income ratio).in other words, if your maximum household expenses and total household debt are at or lower than 28/36, you should be able to safely afford the home.total household expenseswhen calculating your household expenses, sethi says to consider everything your mortgage will include: the principal, interest, taxes, and insurance, or piti.in total, your piti should be less than 28 percent of your gross monthly income, according to sethi.for example, if you make $3,500 a month, your monthly mortgage should be no higher than $980, which would be 28 percent of your gross monthly income.total debtto determine your debt-to-income, calculate:dollar amount of monthly debt you owe divided by dollar amount of your gross monthly income.for example, if you have $1,000 of monthly debt and make $3,500 a month, then your debt-to-income ratio would be .28.in the above two scenarios, your household expenses vs debt is 28/28. this puts your household expenses at 28 percent and your debt under 36, which means you can safely afford the home.if youre within those parameters, its a good rule of thumb that youre fine, says sethi.but lets say 50 percent of your gross monthly income is going towards your total debt. it tells you youre outside the parameters and thats a big red flag, explains sethi.be conservativemany people buy a house because they fall in love with certain features like the bathroom faucets or hardwood floods, says sethi. but the author insists you must stay focused on costs.buying a house is probably the biggest financial purchase of your life, and you should be very financially fluent when it comes to making a purchase of this size, he says.if you dont truly understand what you can safely afford, he says, you may end up with a mortgage that will financially drain you. many home buyers, he explains, get so excited about a house that they dont think about how they might struggle to pay for it if they lose their job or come down with a major illness.for that reason, he says to be conservative.being conservative means you save up for a 20 percent down payment, being conservative means you take a straightforward 15 or 30-year loan, and it means that you calculate these basic numbers and know that youre under the 28/36 rule very comfortably, sethi says.what if you just dont have enough for a down payment?if you dont have enough savings for a 20 percent down payment, then you need to keep saving, sethi says. if you are struggling to save, he advises creating a sub-savings account.a sub-savings account is an automated account that directly deposits small amounts from your paycheck into a savings account, so you dont even have to think about it, he says.a lot of people say hey, im cut to the bone, i cant really save, he says. well, it turns out when you automate this money you never even see it. it actually adds up pretty quick.and dont underestimate the power of the side hustle, he says.a lot of times people underestimate the power of earning more through a side job, through a business, through negotiating your salary, sethi says.dont just give up, sethi added. start saving, pay off debt, and consider earning more. all three of those things will help you eventually buy a house if thats what you choose to do.more from betterhow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayssmart money moves to make now to improve your finances in 2019want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

where were you when the economy lost $1.1 trillion? its been a decade since the financial crisis of 2008. whether or not you were among those who lost a job or financial stability, we all learned important lessons during the great recession, some of them bitter.thankfully over the last decade, weve recovered many of the 8.7 million jobs lost. today, unemployment is just 3.9 percent  a far cry from 10 percent hit in 2009. many of us improved our savings habits, too, bringing the overall personal savings rate up to 6.8 percent versus a pre-crash rate of 3.4 percent, according to the federal reserve bank of st. louis.its tempting to let better times erase the bad ones from our memories. but there are some important takeaways from 2008 that we should do our best to hang onto for the long term. here are three financial moves that the great recession taught us are almost always best avoided.lesson 1: dont always borrow the maximum amount the bank approvesin the years leading up to the great recession, it seemed like everyone thought they should own real estate  either a personal residence, an investment property or both. because of no-doc loans (loans that did not require proof of income), aggressive appraisals and 100 percent financing, many homeowners wound up house rich and cash poor, explains jocelyn wright, adjunct professor at the american college of financial services. then, when the housing bubble burst, they found themselves quickly underwater, in homes worth less than they owed.to make matters worse, many individuals had borrowed to buy multiple homes, some of them with an eye towards flipping them, or buying and reselling a house within a year. in some areas of florida and las vegas, nearly one in five homes were flips, according to samuel miller, senior investment strategist at investment advisory firm seia. when the crisis hit, many homes lost more than 50 percent of their value and lenders foreclosed on millions of families. the american dream turned into an american nightmare, wright says.if youre considering purchasing a home, think long and hard about borrowing the maximum amount the bank approves, wright says. make sure you factor in all other costs associated with homeownership, such as property taxes, insurance and utilities, and look to spend no more than 30 percent of your income on housing expenses.above all, live within your means. your first home isnt likely your forever home, so make sure you are not overspending. recognize that homeownership is not for everyone depending on your current situation. it may make sense to wait until you are in a better position financially before making what will likely be your biggest purchase, wright says.lesson 2: dont fall into the trap of wanting instant gratificationbefore the crash, credit was too easy to come by, on everything from credit cards to mortgage loans. we let delayed gratification fly out the window. if we wanted something and didnt have the money, we simply bought it on credit, wright says. we want to live like the stars we follow on instagram, or like our old classmate we see on facebook, but seem to forget the hard work and sacrifice required.its all too convenient to forget that what you borrow has to be repaid. even a decade after the recession, many people are still rebuilding their credit, wright says. some who were faced with substantial debts during the crash were unable to put money in emergency funds, contribute to retirement accounts or save for their childrens college education, wright explains. in extreme situations, it may have cost people a new job, as employers will often check the credit of potential employees. poor credit can have a personal impact, too, including depression, isolation and stress on our relationships.in a post-recession world, wright says she hopes people are better equipped to distinguish between needs and wants. remember retailers are in the business of separating you from your money, she says. the biggest sale of the year happens about every other month.lesson 3: dont let market fluctuations make you do something you regretmany pre-recession investors didnt bother to look at their portfolios until after the markets had already taken a hit. they then panicked, sold and missed out on the market rebound in 2009 and beyond, describes paul gamble, ceo of investment strategy engine 55ip.panic selling, following what everyone else is doing, and not looking at long-term portfolio objectives are just some of the behavioral hurdles that investors must steel themselves against if theyre going to be successful, gamble advises.smart investors need to have a plan that sees a way to stay in the market and ride out the cycles. whether youre managing your own investments or have a financial advisor  which is highly advisable as we look ahead to the next 10 years  take a fresh look now at your portfolio, gamble says. your advisor can help you develop a target asset mix that works for you, based on your risk preferences and financial goals, so youre always diversified, and ready to weather the next storm.kathryn tuggle contributed to this report. money how-tos:how to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayshow to save more moneywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram

these days, dozens and dozens of healthier frozen meals line the freezer shelves. and thank goodness! because with jam-packed days, at least preparing a nutritious meal can go quickly.but before you stock up, its important to know what you should you look for in a frozen meal. your best bet is one with less than 500 calories and no more than 600 milligrams of sodium. you also dont want to go too low in calories  if a meal sits below the 300- to 350-calorie mark, youll want to beef it up with a side of lean protein like shrimp or lentils, a healthy fat such as avocado or olives, or a fruit or starchy vegetable. and youll want to aim for a meal with at least 10 grams of protein and 3 grams of fiber. these nutrients help keep you fuller for longer, so you wont be raiding the pantry a few hours later.dont forget to keep these pointers in mind when reading the ingredients list:look for a whole food. ingredients are listed in descending order of weight. so ideally, the first ingredient will be a whole food  for instance, a protein (such as chicken or beans), a fruit or vegetable or a whole grain.avoid trans fats. steer clear of ingredient lists that contain partially hydrogenated oil, a flag that a meal contains trans fats.here are seven nutritionist picks to consider adding to your grocery list. youll see that not every single meal on this list fits the guidelines above. in those cases, follow their expert suggestions for doctoring up a meal in mere minutes (or seconds!) to help it fit this criteria.sweet earth curry tiger bowlim a vegetarian, so im limited with selections and try to find meals with a decent amount of protein, says tara collingwood, ms, rdn, cssd, team dietitian for orlando magic and co-author of \"flat belly cookbook for dummies.\" i also look for meals with veggies and whole grains. collingwood says this asian-inspired bowl is one of her go-tos because it features multiple plant-based proteins  including lentils, seitan, brown rice and quinoa. you get a mix of veggies and an excellent amount of protein, 14 grams, for only 330 calories.make it even healthier: sometimes if i have leftover veggies, ill warm them up and mix them into the dish, says collingwood. theres enough sauce for this addition.luvo chicken harissa &amp; chickpeasthis meal has a super low sodium content for a frozen meal, with 330 milligrams, says lauren harris-pincus, ms, rdn, author of \"the protein-packed breakfast club.\" she says she also likes that its free of gluten, dairy and nuts  perfect for people with specific dietary needs. i also value that luvo meals are not packaged in plastic containers and the outer container and pouches are recyclable, harris-pincus says.make it even healthier: with just 270 calories, pair this meal with a banana or cup of berries for extra calories and filling fiber.evol vegetable enchiladasso how about those times youre craving mexican but dont want to blow your daily calorie intake out of the water? these enchiladas taste like the restaurant version and are stuffed with plenty of veggies  including zucchini, bell peppers and onions. with a base of corn, they provide their fill of whole grains and fiber. the protein content is solid, too, at 11 grams.make it even healthier: pair the dish with a side of rice, and heat up a serving of birds eye steamfresh veggie made cauliflower.amys kitchen brown rice &amp; vegetables bowl, light in sodiumthis brand is beloved by dietitians, and the line of light-in-sodium meals makes it even easier to recommend. i love this meal because it has only 270 milligrams of sodium, practically unheard of for a frozen meal! says autumn ehsaei, ms, rdn, clt, a private practice dietitian in cary, north carolina. its really delicious and simple, which i enjoy because i often find frozen meals to taste salty.make it even healthier: the only downside to this option is it is pretty small, with only 260 calories, says ehsaei, who suggests adding a fried egg or rinsed canned chickpeas for extra protein and avocado slices for healthy fat.caulipower margherita pizzafinally! heres a gluten-free, dietitian-approved frozen pizza. i love cauliflower pizza, so this is a great alternative to a traditional pie as it has fewer calories, says ryan whitcomb, ms, rd, clt, a private practice dietitian in jersey city, new jersey. think 330 calories for half a pie. just one cheese slice at your neighborhood pizzeria may clock in at that calorie count! you also get a good amount of protein and fiber.make it even healthier: i usually throw broccoli, bell peppers and onions on top of the pie to increase the veggie and antioxidant content, says whitcomb. i also add lean chicken or turkey to increase the protein.trader joes wild salmoneating at least two 3.5-ounce weekly servings of cooked fatty fish is recommended to get your fill of the omega-3s epa and dha. salmon is low in heart-unhealthy saturated fat and robust in omega-3s, says joan salge blake, edd, rdn, a clinical associate professor of nutrition at boston university and author of \"nutrition &amp; you.\" in a time-crunched world, this frozen meal is an easy way to get heart-healthy fish on the weekly menu. the salmon is served over orzo pasta with spinach, zucchini and a yogurt sauce.make it even healthier: add even more vegetables to your meal by pairing the salmon with a side salad. add a splash of a low-in-added-sugar vinaigrette, such as grape vinaigrette salad dressing.gardein asian style chickn fried ricenot all freezer meals need to be microwaved! heres an option that cooks in the skillet in minutes. for vegetarians and vegans, this is good option when youre short on time and looking for a quick, balanced meal, says angie asche, ms, rd, a private practice sports dietitian in lincoln, nebraska. i love that it uses brown rice, includes a variety of veggies, and has a plant-based source of protein. each serving provides an excellent amount of both fiber and protein for 340 calories.make it even healthier: the sauce adds a significant amount of sodium to the meal. and it comes in its own pouch, so you dont have to add it to your meal. i completely omit the sauce packet and add my own flavors! says asche. i saut a little garlic in avocado oil and add that to the dish, along with a drizzle of bragg liquid aminos.go ahead and eat up! by the way, if a meals instructions say to let it stand after microwaving, dont rush to unwrap it and eat it. your dish will actually finish cooking in those extra minutes.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

every six seconds, a pet owner is faced with a vet bill of more than $1,000  and if youre a pet owner, chances are pretty good youve been hit with bills far more expensive than that. treating stomach conditions (the most common serious illness for dogs and cats) can cost up to $6,500, according to a new study by healthypaws pet insurance.veterinary expenses can be doubly traumatic to a household, emotionally and financially. its awful watching your pet suffer, and it can be incredibly distressing to know that the bills for their care have destroyed your budget for the month, or even the year.every six seconds, a pet owner is faced with a vet bill of more than $1,000.everyday i see people making important medical decisions about their pets based on their ability to afford care, says dr. christie long, chief veterinarian at petcoach, a purveyor of vet-curated pet food, supplies and educational resources. those conversations are tough. sometimes we arent able to take the best care of a pet due to a persons ability to pay, and sometimes we even have to euthanize. its scary how money can prevent us from doing whats in the pets best interest.even if your pet avoids any serious accidents and injuries, the annual cost of pet ownership is still an important item to include in your budget the average bill is $1,270 for a dog, and $1,070 for a cat, according to the aspca. and while theres no way to completely eliminate the possibilities of a health catastrophe for your pet, there are ways to lessen the financial blow when disaster strikes, and prevent health problems from arising. we checked in with experts to find out what you need to do.get pet insurance  earlypet insurance has become big business  pet parents spent $1.03 billion in premiums in 2017  but surprisingly few animals are insured. out of 183 million dogs and cats in the u.s., only 1.83 million of them are currently insured, according to pet insurance quotes, an independent review site and marketplace for pet insurance.its scary how money can prevent us from doing whats in the pets best interest.pet insurance policies generally range in price from $25 per month to $45 per month depending on your pets breed, age and where you live. these standard accident and illness policies cover a wide range of treatment from hip replacements to nasal surgery to cancer. some providers also offer wellness and routine care coverage for around $20 per month on average, according to nick braun, founder of pet insurance quotes.\"just like home or auto insurance, pet insurance companies rate differently, so we encourage pet parents to compare plans and prices from at least three providers in order to find the best value, braun says. while all pet insurance plans can be used at any licensed veterinary clinic or speciality hospital, with no restrictions, no pet insurance covers pre-existing conditions. this is why we strongly encourage pet parents to enroll while their pet is young and healthy, braun says.set aside money for emergenciessavings accounts are a good idea for all pet parents  even those with insurance  because pre-existing conditions, dental care, and most check-ups wont be covered, depending on the policy you choose. put money away, and if you dont ever need to use it, then you can save it for your next animal. but for most pets, its not a matter of if theyll get sick, its when, says rob jackson, ceo and co-founder of healthy paws.one cost that often comes as a shock to pet parents is for diagnostics, jackson says. your four-legged friends cant tell you what they ate or where it hurts, so the vet will have to do different diagnostic tests, and oftentimes youre looking at $1,000 to $2,000 just to diagnose a problem, before youve even begun to treat it.the worst thing you can do is to put everything off until its too late  and if you dont have money saved and you dont have insurance, youll wind up putting everything on a credit card, braun says. most people go through life hoping that nothing bad happens, but this is your pets life at stake, and these decisions really cant be put off.be a responsible (and vigilant) pet parentanimal-proofing your house is a lot like child-proofing your house  make sure there is nothing dangerous for them to swallow, that they cant electrocute themselves by chewing on wires, and that they cant fall off of high surfaces, long says. i have two little dogs so i dont have to worry about leaving things on the kitchen counter, but a big dog can put his paws up on the counter and get whatevers up there, she says.unfortunately, the great outdoors can be even more dangerous than your home  though it may seem like your pet is longing to roam alone outdoors, its not always the best idea. as humans, we have to make the best decisions for our animals, and traumatic accidents, like getting hit by a car, or mauled by another animal, are common causes of serious injury in pets. never let your pet wander off leash, or ride in an open car or truck that they can jump out of.preventive care is also hugely important for dogs and cats, which includes vaccinations, but so much more, long says. something like heartworm prevention costs around $6 per month, but can cost $1,000 to treat, depending on when its discovered. likewise, monthly prevention against fleas and ticks is around $10 per month, but treating a lyme infection can easily run $2,000, and often the prognosis is not good, long says.theres no substitute for having your vet see and put hands on your animal every year, as they catch problems early, when they are easier and less expensive to treat, long says. the vet may notice subtle changes in the sound of a pets heart that can only be picked up with a stethoscope, and feel for changes in the size and shape of internal organs that can indicate a problem. pets under five years of age should be taken for a check-up at least once per year, and pets over five should go twice per year.with kathryn tugglemore on petswhat your dogs behavior says about youforget what youve heard. being a cat lady is healthy.how dogs teach us to stop worrying and just be happywhy dogs are good for our health and help us cope with lifewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if youre a wine connoisseur or enjoy a good cabernet, you likely dont need another reason to put wine tasting on a list of activities you like. but science has one for you: it can stimulate the brain more than a lot of other activities (from listening to a beethoven concerto to solving a complex trigonometry problem).dont go thinking thats a license to start guzzling glass after glass of ros with reckless abandon, however. a key part of the activity is the concentrated discrimination of the taste of wine, explains gordon m. shepherd, phd, dphil, professor of neuroscience at yale school of medicine, who wrote the book on this topic, \"neuroenology\". that means the brain ramps it up when youre actively engaged in tasting your libation, but probably not so much if youre thoughtlessly gulping. (and thats whether youre a sommelier or a novice sipper.)it involves multiple sensory and motor systems, as well as central conceptual systems for cognition and memory  and systems for emotion and pleasure, shepherd says. so the brain becomes more engaged in wine tasting than it would, for example, be when it comes to solving a math problem or listening to music, which involve fewer body systems working together.a key point (and yes, a somewhat abstract one to wrap your head around) is that the flavors we perceive arent in the food or drink itself, but rather something that the brain creates.the brain creates all of what we see and feelthe brain actually creates all of our sensory world, shepherd says. color, for example, does not exist in the objects we see. whether something appears purple or orange to us is instead a result of the way light hits that object and those different wave lengths of light stimulate the circuits of our brain (which weve identified as different colors). similarly, we feel pain because of the neural processing that happens in the brain in response to a stimulus that something is wrong with another part of our body (such as a brick falling on our foot).in the same way, molecules in food and wine have no flavor in themselves, he says. our sensory systems create our perceptions of flavor.but whats different about taste compared to our other senses is that so many body systems and sensory processes are involved, as shepherd explains in a 2015 review article published in the journal flavour.first the senses: our sense of smell (both the odor stimuli we get from sniffing in as well as from breathing out) are involved. and our sense of sight is involved, perceiving what the food or drink looks like. and theres the sense of touch (or the texture of food) we feel in our mouth and our tongue. additionally, different muscle and motor systems are involved in the physical process of tasting (the tongue, jaw, cheek, neck and more).then there are the brain systems involved (the central behavioral systems): memory systems are engaged in recognizing flavors youve experienced before. you may or may not have an emotional response to a wine. hormonal systems may be triggered to deliver a dopamine (pleasure) response. the brain regions that control motivation are activated to determine whether or not youll keep drinking. the pleasure network in the brain makes the final decision on our rating of the wine. and the part of the brain that controls language and communication is activated if youre telling others about what you just tasted.technically wine is a food. so does the same thing happen in your brain when youre tasting, lets say, a piece of chocolate cake or a type of olive oil with concentrated discrimination?in principle, yes, shepherd says. but wine is composed almost wholly from molecules that give it its distinct taste, versus other foods composed of molecules that provide nutrition, too. so, according to shepherd: wine drinkers therefore can concentrate exclusively on perceptual details about flavor.taste depends on a lot more than the chemical composition of winecharles spence, phd, professor of experimental psychology at university of oxford, studies how the human mind processes information from the environment around us. work from his lab suggests that there are a lot of factors besides the chemical composition of a wine affect what we taste, and therefore the brain is busy when were (thoughtfully) tasting it.a lot of pleasure resides in the expectations we have that can come from the weight of the bottle, the type of closure and the music playing in the background, he says. all these other factors [can] typically elevate the experience.a 2017 study from him and his colleagues suggest that even for wine writers, whether the taster hears a cork being popped or a screw-cap bottle being unscrewed can affect their ratings  likely because each sound sets off different expectations, which do affect taste, according to the paper. the study included 140 individuals (all with varying levels of wine expertise), and is still a preliminary investigation of the question.other data found how heavy a wine bottle is and the music a taster is listening to can change the words we use to describe it.together the research says its the total multisensory experience that explains why tasting wine engages so much of the brain, spence says  whereas a concert only engages one sense: hearing.if youre tasting a wine and trying to distinguish different notes and distinctive aromas, he adds  and trying to fit that with prior wines we have tasted, there is a lot going on.the caveat, however, is theres a danger in suggesting that all flavor happens in the brain, as the chemical composition of what youre drinking must be relevant, too. (no matter what music is playing and how fancy a bottle a liquid comes out of, you likely wont mix up the tastes of wine and orange juice, for example.)but the perception and enjoyment we experience is clearly a construct of the mind that engages the senses and links to our memories, spence explains.does that mean that wine tasting is good for my brain?this is where the discussion gets tricky. wine tasting as an activity may engage the brain more than other activities. (and that activation is how we learn things and sharpen our cognitive skills, shepherd says.)but that doesnt mean that the alcohol youre putting in your body isnt causing other problems. a large, global analysis published in august of more than 700 studies that looked at alcohol consumption and disease burden found that it actually may be that any amount of drinking heightens disease risk.its hard to argue against the neuroscience [shepherd] presents, says david a. merrill, md, phd, a clinical research scientist and psychiatrist at the semel institute for neuroscience and human behavior at university of california-los angeles. it is entertaining to think of how many neural systems are activated from a process that looks so simple on the surface.but theres also pretty convincing evidence that alcohol consumption can do its share of damage, too. for any patients with early-stage memory loss, depression, anxiety, insomnia and fall risk, drinking alcohol can worsen these problems. and theres the concerning findings in that new study on the global disease burden of alcohol, he says.the bottom line, he says: wine is a double-edged sword.more \"this is your brain on\"what the beach does to your brainyour brain on a dietsmiling can trick your brain into happiness (and boost your health)your brain on prayer and meditiationthe science behind being hangrywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

name: jesse alexanderage: 42residence: new york cityjob: formerly a massage therapist, now a fitness professional who teaches indoor cycling classesfamily status: married with two children, a 6-year-old daughter and a 3-year-old sonheight: 5 11peak weight: 230 poundscurrent weight: 170 poundsat 230 pounds, jesse alexander thought of himself as a big guy, not as someone with a weight problem. i was just unaware. i didnt really take a second to look in the mirror, he says.in 2006, two things changed his perception of himself. first, his dad called him puffy  not in a malicious or nasty way, alexander points out, just as part of a conversation. two weeks later the second punch hit  alexander saw his doctor for a physical and learned that he was classified as obese. that was honestly not what i was looking to hear. i would much rather hear that i was puffy, he says.i wasnt the most mature of dudes back then. i was just unaware. i didnt know any better, and i didnt really care to.a skinny startalexander was lean and lanky as a child, but as an adult his life revolved around excess  too much drinking, partying and late-night eating. if eating one or two things would be good, eating five or six would be awesome, he says. it wasnt the healthiest of lifestyles. i wasnt the most mature of dudes back then. i was just unaware. i didnt know any better, and i didnt really care to.dropping the first 30 poundsafter his one-two-punch wakeup call, alexander first looked at his diet. he stopped drinking soda and sweet tea, cut way back on his three-bagels-a-week habit, and limited his sugar intake. those changes alone knocked 30 pounds from his frame. i looked different fairly quickly. i was still a stocky guy, but from 230 to around 200 pounds was a big difference, he says.his weight plateaued at that level until 2011. i was happy in comparison to where i had been. while i wanted to continue on my journey, i was complacent. i couldnt figure out what to do next, but it wasnt overly stressing me out. i wasnt at the next level nutritionally. i was going to the gym, but there was no real rhyme or reason to my workouts, he says.just one class changes his lifeat that time alexander was working as a massage therapist, and he massaged one of the founders of soulcycle. she thought it would be a great idea to introduce me to another instructor, he says. alexander and that instructor dated briefly, but taking his first indoor cycling class with her as his instructor changed his life.i had never felt anything like that. it took me to another place. the combination of the music, the instructor, the energy, the sweat, the endorphins  i didnt know what any of that meant, but i knew how i felt. i felt good. i felt at home. i felt like i needed to do this every single day, he says.what did he love about the class? the energy of the group in the room. the way everyone moved together. the positive, warm, inviting atmosphere. there was a vibe i really gravitated to, he says.his diet gets a second overhaulwhen jesse fell in love with indoor cycling he also took a hard look at his diet and spotted places he could make improvements. before then, i didnt know what clean eating was. i didnt know what superfoods were. i didnt know the difference between good carbs and bad carbs or good fats and bad fats, he says. he was eating what he thought at the time was a healthy diet  salads doused in dressing, foods labeled as low-fat or low-sugar, and two slices of pizza instead of four.he shifted his intake of carbs to earlier in his day, before he worked out. he tried a vegan diet and while he didnt stick with it, he learned that for him, dairy was problematic. i used to drink a ton of milk and eat a ton of cheese. once i cut that out, my body changed dramatically, he says. after i gave up milk and cheese i saw definition in my midsection within a month with minimal changes to my workout.he notes that his diet isnt perfect. the kids might want pizza or shake shack. im trying to live my best life with them, so we adjust as we see fit. if i eat a burger with my kids but dont have the bun, thats the best of both worlds.most of the time, though, he cooks at home, where he can control the ingredients. that makes a tremendous difference, he says.those changes helped him drop 30 more pounds, weighing in now at 170. that same doctor who told me i was obese now tells me im too lean, he says. he acknowledges that on his busiest days he doesnt always find time to eat, and since hes so active the weight comes off.parlaying his passion into a new careeralexander attended indoor cycling classes as often as he could, and after two years as an avid participant he decided he wanted to be an instructor.i loved it so much. when i left at the end of the day i felt better about either life or just my day. i wanted to make other people feel that good. what was so life-changing and eye-opening was that is wasnt about the workout. that was secondary. it was about the way i felt. i wanted to deliver that to the world, he says.with so many classes under his belt, he thought hed be a shoo-in as an instructor when he auditioned at another studio, flywheel. i thought theyd think, wow, i just never saw so much raw talent. but it didnt quite go that way, he says.he didnt get hired after his first audition, but a few months later, after his second audition, he landed an instructor spot at flywheel. he worked his way up to master instructor there and now is a senior master instructor at cyclebar. he teaches 12 classes a week at his home studio and also leads classes in other cities and states, bringing his passion for indoor cycling to as many people as he can reach. i make people feel good for a living, he says.jesses typical daily mealsbreakfast: eggs or a protein shake for breakfast; both if hes planning an intense workout.lunch: a salad with some type of protein.dinner: protein like lean turkey, chicken breast, or fish with a green vegetable like broccoli, brussels sprouts, asparagus, or spinach. if i can help it, i dont have carbs after 6 unless its sweet potatoes. i try to eat carbs earlier in the day, he says.key for him is planning his portions. thats worked for me, he says.more weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as the saying goes, timing is everything. and when it comes to eating, aligning your meals with your natural circadian rhythm  the highly elaborate physiological system that coordinates your sleep-wake cycle and all the hormones and metabolic processes tied to that  may just help you function optimally and lead to many health improvements.the evidence suggests that our bodies may do best when we eat more in the morning than at night, a pattern thats vastly different from how most americans eat. timing our meals this way may lead to better body weight, hormone regulation, blood sugar and cholesterol levels, sleep patterns and other metabolic improvements.the evidence indicates that our bodies do best when we eat more in the morning than at night, a pattern thats vastly different from how most americans eat.in one study that allowed participants the same number of daily calories, but compared the impact of front-loading 50 percent of those calories at breakfast versus the same number at dinner, those in the breakfast group fared significantly better. bigger breakfast eaters experienced more than twice the amount of weight loss compared to the bigger dinner eaters, and at the end of the 12-week study, also experienced improvements in triglyceride levels and cholesterol levels. the breakfast group also had better insulin levels throughout the day. taken together (and assuming these factors hold up over time) it would result in a significantly lower risk of health problems, like diabetes, metabolic syndrome and heart disease. whats more, the group assigned to the bigger breakfast had fewer dropouts, suggesting that eating your biggest meal in the morning may be a more sustainable habit.additional research may back up these findings. one small study looked at participants who were given an identical meal one week apart with the only difference being the timing of the meal (one in the morning and one in the evening). again, the morning eaters came out ahead with improvements in blood glucose levels and a slight boost in metabolic rate.a more recent analysis adds more to the timing is everything case, showing that compared to eating a big dinner as americans typically do, eating your largest meal in the morning can lead to better sleep patterns. in this small study, people in the morning meal camp fell asleep more easily and slept more routine hours. in other research, regular sleep times were linked to increased feelings of happiness, healthiness and calmnessin other words, better well-being.the research on time-restricted feeding  a form of intermittent fasting  is also promising. in a recent 10-week study, people who were instructed to both delay breakfast for 90 minutes and eat dinner 90 minutes earlier (thereby changing the timeframe in which they could eat), lost an average of twice as much body fat as those who were allowed to eat normally, despite being allowed to eat whatever they wanted during the approved hours. though in this case, despite the impressive results, 57 percent of the participants whose eating was restricted felt the time window was impractical for the long haul.can we draw conclusions on meal timing based on small, short-term studies? its hard to know whether results like this would hold up over the long haul or with more diverse populations (say, older, less healthy people, people of different backgrounds, etc.). and there are practical issues, too. our work schedules and family obligations may make it difficult to get your biggest meal in the morning and cut off eating in the evening hours.a culture out of sync with our bodiesits interesting to consider how our typical eating patterns  light on breakfast (if eaten at all) with the biggest meal in the evening, coupled with our fast-paced lives (working and commuting long hours leading to late night meals and snacking) may lead to poorer health and weight outcomes. ive also seen a pattern of ultra-light morning and mid-day meals lead to insatiable hunger and cravings, and over-snacking on unhealthy fare, which causes trouble on its own.certainly, it doesnt appear that our bodies are designed to function at their best for the around-the-clock food culture were living in. in my experience, its good practice to give your body a chance to digest before bedtime by finishing your last meal or snack a few hours before you turn in. if your system is busy digesting late at night, it can disrupt the body processes that happen as we sleep, which may cause hormone disturbances and other imbalances that promote overeating and weight gain. since your body needs about 10-12 hours to recalibrate, allowing it the time it needs is a smart call.how to time your mealsgiven what the evidence points to, and my experience with clients, i think its worth paying attention to meal timing. heres what i suggest:make sure you have a satisfying and balanced breakfast that provides sufficient protein (starting at 20 g), quality carbohydrates from fruit, beans, and/or whole grains and plant-based fats (such as seeds, nuts, or avocados). eating breakfast helps reduce blood sugar spikes throughout the day and keeps your hunger hormones in check. and eating more in the morning and at lunch means you have a better chance of using that fuel as energy compared to eating the bulk of your food at night.when practical, keep dinner light and lean (ideas include grilled chicken or fish and a variety of veggies) and limit snacking after that.its reasonable to assume these habits will have a health payoff now and down the road.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

hurricane season may be nearing an end, but its not going out quietly.as the carolinas recover from the damage of hurricane florence, florida is bracing against the wrath of tropical storm michael, which was updated to a category 3 hurricane on monday, and is expected landfall along the florida panhandle gulf coast on wednesday.this will be a hard hitting and fast storm, anthony tornetta, spokesperson for american red cross tells nbc news better.here are tornettas tips on how to prepare for hurricane michael, and what to do to keep you and your family (including your pets) safe.have an evacuation plan in place before a hurricane warning comeshurricanes, unlike other natural disasters such as earthquakes and wildfires, typically dont strike out of nowhere. the national hurricane center (nhc) issues hurricane watches 48 hours before an anticipated onset, and releases hurricane warnings in an advance of 36 hours.if your area has a hurricane watch or warning in effect, your best bet is to pack up and go asap  but you should have a plan in place ahead of time.we encourage the very three simple steps: get a kit, make a plan and be informed, tornetta tells nbc news better. this is key when facing a natural disaster. you need to know where to go if you have to evacuate.a storm is by nature chaotic and securing a place with family or elsewhere before the storm reaches landfall is key. if family or friends arent available, know where the local evacuation centers are. you can find those nearest to you by entering your zip code in the red cross app, which is available for free in the apple store, google play and online.your hurricane kit staples: chargers, food, contact lenses and morehurricane emergency kits can be bought in stores and online, but no matter what you buy, tornetta underscores that youre going to have to tailor it to fit your needs.going through a disaster is not a normal occurrence, so we want to put some sort of normalcy to a rather un-normal situation, he says.in addition to the staples such as a flashlight, batteries, bottled water, non-perishable foods and a first-aid kit, tornetta notes that youll also want to add the following:any medications youre taking (at least a weeks worth).spare glasses and/or spare contact lenses if applicable.charging cords for devicesa powered brick chargermore bottled water and more non-perishable foodsa can openerdocumentation and id cardsliving willsa wallet with cash and credit cardsanything youll need to function in the next 72 hours.an evacuation center is not a shelter  bring food, water and essentialsan important distinction tornetta notes is that an evacuation center is not a shelter. it may become a shelter if the evacuation wins up being long-term (i.e., if you cannot safely return home), but you need to bring your own food, water and other essentials for your family for up to two days.make sure to bring your kit with you.evacuation centers are not set up for long-term stay like shelters are, says tornetta. theyre there as a safe place to get you out of the storm as it passes. you may be able to go back home within 24 to 48. bring enough stuff (food, water, etc.) to sustain yourself and your family for that time.if you cant go back home within a day or two, your evacuation center will likely be converted into a shelter, with cots and other staples brought in to accommodate you and your family.riding out the storm is never a good idea, but if you doplenty of folks have inspiring stories of riding out super storms and hurricanes safely. but think of all the people who dont have those stories, or who didnt make it through? its a morbid thought, but a reminder to get out while you can.time and time again we see people ordered to leave and deciding to ride out the storm, perhaps because theyve rode out past ones, tornetta says. then we see the emergency rescue. we ask people to please heed local authorities. if the local news station is telling you about a mandatory evacuation, please evacuate. its better to be safe than sorry.now, if you are going to take the potentially deadly route of riding out the storm, be sure you know what youre in for and prep as well as you can.i dont want to pigeonhole into saying you must do this for your house, as everyones home is different, but absolutely board up windows, and if its getting late in the evening and theres a possible flash flood, dont stay on the first floor.keep your emergency kit close at hand and be prepared for a prolonged power outage by having those phones and flashlights fully powered. tornetta also recommends investing in a hand crank radio.shelters have partnerships to protect your pets  and often you can visit themnow, if youre anything like me, the doting mother of two dogs, you may be thinking, no way am i going to a shelter where ill be separated from my pets.true, you may not be able to keep them in the shelter with you and other folks seeking refuge, but most shelters have partnerships with community organizations to accommodate your pets.we work to make sure pets have a safe place to go, says tornetta. shelters are typically partnered with community groups that have a safe place for pets where you even have visiting rights. one shelter we worked with in baton rouge a few years ago had a pet shelter that was not attached to the peoples shelter but we provided transportation for people to visit their pets be they dogs, birds or fish.if you have the luxury of time, talk to your veterinarian about alternative options for pet boarding during a storm. know which hotels or motels will accept your pet if you take that route. the aspca also recommends that you have an emergency kit for your pet. this should include a pet first-aid kit and guide book; a weeks worth of canned (pop-top) or dry food; bowls, disposable litter trays (the aluminum kind we use for cooking are perfect for this); at least a weeks worth of bottled water, litter or paper towels, dish soap and disinfectant, garbage bags, a spare collar and spare leash; copies or a usb containing medical records; a crate or carrier (one for each pet); a flashlight, a blanket; recent photos of your pet just in case they get lost, and of course, toys.its also highly recommended that your pet not only have a collar id, but a microchip with all your current information.after the storm can be the worst, use caution and dont touch light switchesas past hurricanes have proven, the days after the storm passes can be the deadliest, so youll want to make sure that its safe to return home. when it is, be cautious about what you touch when you enter.one of the bluest skies ive ever seen was [in new orleans] the morning after hurricane katrina, says tornetta. just because the storm has passed, please dont run home. listen to local authorities about when it is safe, and when it is, keep in mind you could open the door to feet of water and power lines could be down, which is not a good mix. it sounds clich, but common sense comes into play. think about what you would normally do to feel safe.if a food is supposed to be frozen before you cook it and it has thawed out, [discard it]. also keep in mind the possibility of shocks if you touch a light switch. i would wait and let the power come back on its own and not touch anything [potentially shocking].volunteer! others need our helpif you are lucky enough to return to an undamaged home, or if you never face evacuation in the first place, consider helping others by volunteering for the red cross or another organization.we are 90 percent made up of volunteers and we really cant do it without them, says tornetta. if youre reading this and want to help, please contact your local red cross and learn about becoming a volunteer.more weather safety tipshow to prepare for a power outage, according to a professional prepperhow hurricanes are namedhow to protect your home from floodshow your brain reacts to watching disasterswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

you just received a check to pay for something youre selling on craigslist or to cover your first assignment as a mystery shopper. think you could tell if its real or fake?chances are you couldnt  and con artists are counting on that. counterfeit checks, often digitally altered versions of real business checks, are so good that theyre nearly impossible to spot  even bank tellers can be fooled.its estimated that as many as 500,000 americans were burned by fake check scams last year, with the average victim losing about $1,200, according to a new report from the better business bureau.check fraud is a huge problem, the report says, with millions of fake checks worth billions of dollars circulating every year. complaints to government agencies and consumer advocacy groups have doubled over the last three years.fake checks and counterfeit money orders are now used in a variety of scams. here are some common scenarios:classified ads: youre selling something on craigslist or some other online classified ad site and the buyer sends you a check for more than the selling price. sorry, we made a mistake, they say. just deposit it and wire back the difference.prize scams: youve won a big sweepstakes or lottery prize, but you need to pay the taxes and handling costs to claim it. no worries, theyre sending you a check to cover those expenses  just deposit it and send the money to a third party.employment scams: youve been hired for a work-at-home position, but you need to buy some supplies to get started. your new employer sends you a check to cover those expenses and tells you where to wire the money to buy them.these schemes all work the same way: the intended target is sent a check or money order to deposit in their checking account. theyre instructed to send some of that money to another person or company, typically by western union or moneygram.once the check is returned for being counterfeit, the victim has already sent off the money to the crooks. in most cases, the bank will not return the money because the check was bad.the secret sauce that makes this con so successfulwhy do so many people wire money to complete strangers? because they dont understand how the banking system works. when you deposit a check and the funds show up in your account as available, it does not mean the check is valid.federal rules require the bank to make those funds available, in most cases, within a day or two. but the bank has the right to recover the money from the account holder, if the check is found to be counterfeit  and that process can take a week or two.crooks know this chink in the banking system and theyre taking full advantage of it, said steven baker, bbb international investigations specialist. its incredibly devious and you can see how anyone can fall for it.one more warning: a cashiers check is assumed to be as good as cash, but theyre also being counterfeited to use in these scams.no warning signskathy derrick, who lives in a chicago suburb, has plenty of experience in the business world as an executive assistant  and she still got taken for $2,000.i think they are awful, conniving people who are very smart and know exactly what theyre doing, derrick told nbc news better.derrick was contacted via linkedin for a work-at-home position with a well-known technology company. the email was professional, the online interview went well, and she was offered a good hourly rate.to get started, derrick would need to buy equipment and office supplies from one of the companys vendors (actually the crooks) and she was sent several checks to pay for that. derrick deposited them, waited for the money to show up in her checking account and then wired off the payments.the supplies never came and there was no job, but the bank froze her personal checking account for three months, while it investigated why shed deposited a bad check. eventually, she got things worked out, but the bank would not put the $2,000 back in her account.there were no red flags. they looked like the real companys checks with the real head of hrs name and signature on them, derrick said.mystery shopper scamfake checks are most often used in mystery shopper scams, the bbb warns. the fraudsters send a check and instructions for the first assignment, often via a courier service to make it seem legitimate.mark michelson received his mystery shopper assignment letter and a cashiers check for $2,367 via fedex. the bogus check looked real and the letter falsely said the company was bbb accredited and a member of the mystery shopping providers association (mspa).michelson, who runs a marketing research company in atlanta, started the mspa in 1997 to fight fraud, so he knew this was a scam. he decided to play along to see what would happen.he was instructed to deduct $257, as his commission for this assignment, and then go shopping. after making a small purchase at a local store and rating the experience, he was supposed to buy $2,000 worth of money orders and send them to another mystery shopper (a co-conspirator) for them to complete their assignment.once he made contact with the bogus mystery shopping company, there was constant pressure to get going, michelson told nbc news better.they were persistent, emailing me two or three times a day: send the money right away, our clients are waiting, we need to get this completed now,  he recalled.five days later, the bank notified him that the cashiers check was a fake. if he had completed his assignment, michelson would have lost $2,110.protect yourselfanytime you are sent a check or money order from someone you dont know and told to deposit the check and send off some money to them or a third party  stop and ask yourself, would any legitimate business transaction require me to do that? simple answer: no.at the very least, contact the better business bureau and ask for their advice. youll also find various resources online:the federal trade commission has tips on how to avoid fake check and mystery shopper scams.the us postal service has issued an alert on how to detect a fake money order.the office of the comptroller of the currency has issued an alert about fake cashiers checks.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its one thing to travel to a foreign country for vacation; its quite another to travel for business. there may still be plenty of fun to be had, but work is work. whether youre doing attending meetings or a conference, the goal is to form or foster professional relationships, and this can be challenging when you dont know the language.language-learning apps and books can be extremely beneficial when looking to nail down the basics of a new language, but it could be a while before you get to the level of weaving in a foreign countrys corporate jargon. we have no shortage of such idioms in america (e.g. ahead of the curve, back to the drawing board, cut ones losses and get the ball rolling) that we use without even thinking about it. germany, brazil, indonesia and every other country are no different, but their sayings may sound, well, totally foreign to someone who isnt embedded in the places work culture.bringing nations together, one corporate phrase at a timethe global language-learning app babbel assembled a list of business jargon and phrases used in 10 countries: belgium, brazil, france, germany, indonesia, greece, the netherlands, norway, poland and sweden, respectively.co ma piernik do wiatraka? in polish translates as what does gingerbread have to do with a windmill?we already knew from discussions among our in-house team of more than 150 linguists that there are some delightful and colorful business expressions unique to certain countries,\" says julie hansen, ceo of babbel us. \"we decided to explore the theme further by tapping into the international business communities of multiple chambers of commerce, who helped us to collate some of the most remarkable business clichs from around the world.the phrases are unique; but the meanings evoke a universal wisdomthe phrases babble highlighted may strike you as strange, particularly if youre not at all familiar with the language, and reference imagery or history that doesnt immediately ring a bell. consider polands co ma piernik do wiatraka? which translates as what does gingerbread have to do with a windmill?at first you might be scratching your head at trying to answer this question, but consider the practical rhetoric, which is what does one task have to do with another? its a point one could make in any meeting where ideas are getting jumbled or an employee isnt sticking with the point of the project at hand. at heart, its a common-sense interjection. same with germanys jetzts gehts um die wurst! which translates to now it is about the sausage! this may be said during the final stages of a project, when we might say something like, time is of the essence.jens wohltorf, ceo and co-founder of blacklane, a berlin-based chauffeur company that equips all its drivers with language cheat-sheets, shares a phrase he hears in business settings in germany: wo gehobelt wird, da fallen spne. it literally means, where you plane wood, the chips fall, but the english equivalent is, you cant make an omelet without breaking eggs.peggy chen, cmo of sdl, who is fluent in mandarin, offers up a popular business phrase: ????, with the phonetic pronunciation, \"jiu niu yi mao\". it literally translates to \"nine cows one hair\", and idiomatically has meaning close to a saying we all know: \"a drop in the bucket.\"the phrase plays on the idea that a single hair on nine cows is like nothing, or insignificant, says chen. you can use it in the business context of an idea or contribution that doesnt matter. for example, if a company has a product that contributes next to no revenue, you would say its like nine cows one hair.\"other etiquette tips for the business travelerknowing phrases is helpful, but youll also want to brush up on a cultures business etiquette if youre visiting for work. caryn antonini, ceo and founder of early lingo offers up the following good-manner musts.be attentive with business cards. in some countries, exchanging business cards is very important. for example, in japan, you must present or accept the card with both hands, almost as if its a gift. when presenting your own card, give a self-introduction and then offer your cards. when accepting a card, be sure to acknowledge it properly and treat it with care when putting it in a pocket or bag.find out if a gift is appropriate. it is often customary to bring a gift of some sort. be sure to research ahead of time what is appropriate.find the right you. dont forget to learn how to address others in another language. many languages are more formal than english, for example, and there are different ways of saying you  both formal and informal. in business settings, opt for the formal.know the cultural donts. brush up on the [a countrys cultural] customs, which are important. for instance, in the middle east, one should never show the bottom of ones shoes. its demeaning and signifies that you put the other person beneath you.ask around before you goit may be intimidating to think of all the customs and phrases you dont know (and dont have the time to learn inside out) when heading out on a business trip. but dont fret; there are plenty of resources but a click (or skype call) away.if you work at a company with foreign branches, connecting with a co-worker is the easiest way to obtain a cultural guide and learn about both in advance of your arrival, says dr. richard shuster, host of the daily helping podcast. leverage resources on the internet such as reddit or social media to begin accumulating data on where you are traveling. even universities may be helpful as many have overseas study programs and faculty could connect you with ways to learn about a foreign country.the power of body languagewhat you say and how you say it is of utmost significance, but body language and gestures also have a great impact.precluding access to our body with our limbs (legs and arms crossed, for example) is an indicator of discomfort, distrust and/or dislike for our speaking partner, says lucio buffalmano, social skills coach and founder of the power moves. on the other hand open body language or pointing our feet towards our conversation partner is a way to tell everyone, our speaking partner included, that we are engrossed in the conversation and they have our full attention.depending on where you are, bowing may also serve as an important way to show your respect.another great way of doing well with locals no matter their culture, is to match positive behavior with positive behavior, says buffalmano. you cant go wrong matching a smile with a smile.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

dont be so quick to judge school lunch: in multiple studies comparing a homemade lunch to the lunch ladys fare, school meals were deemed healthier than what mom and dad packed. still, packing lunch is an opportunity to create healthier habits and provide nourishing foods, and meals made in your kitchen put you and your family in control. and through repeated exposure, your home-packed meal teaches your child to enjoy new foods. beyond that, studies show that establishing healthy eating habits in these early years impacts a persons food choices later on. thats why nutritious lunches are key! here are some tips for packing a healthier school lunch as well as some inspiring recipes to get your school year off to the right start.embrace whole grainsif youre not packing whole grains for your child, youre missing an important opportunity to provide fiber, magnesium, and other notable nutrients. youre also missing a chance to help your child expand his or her palette to include these healthy grains. studies show that home packed meals are often lacking in whole grains, but theres an easy fix: when packing sandwiches, crackers or pasta, insist on whole grain versions over refined, white ones. if these foods are new to your child, layer them with things he or she already loves. say your child loves pasta with parmesan. swap in whole grain pasta for your ordinary noodles but keep the sauce the same. or start with a 50/50 approach. this works for sandwiches, too, with one side being white bread and the other being whole wheat. remember, your goal is to reach 100% whole grain foods before too long.pack plenty of producethis may sound obvious but according to science on the subject, its where parents often slip up. try to include  cup of both whole fruits and veggies in your childs lunch box. these foods provide the vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, and protective plant compounds that growing bodies demand. (while juice may be 100 percent fruit, the goal is to try to encourage whole forms of produce since few kids are missing the mark on juice.)pro tip: since children love to play with their food, try cutting up fruits and veggies into dipping strips and invite them to try different dips, from sunflower seed or nut butter to hummus, tahini, guacamole, yogurt, ranch dressing, or something you whip up at home. if time and resources get the best of you, fruit canned in juice and dried fruit are easy options. there are a lot of simple ways to make eating more produce fun and inviting, as youll see below.skip the processed snacksthough your child might appreciate the cookie and chips youre tucking in his or her lunch box, these snacks drive up the salt and sugar, which is one reason school meals are often considered more nutritious than home packed lunches. over time, inclusion of these foods can lead to weight gain, which can have serious health implications as your child grows up. instead of packing a daily treat, consider packing a snack every so often (say, once a week) or pack healthy, whole grain snacks, like air-popped popcorn more frequently. you can also use non-food party favors to add more flair to lunch boxes: stickers, note cards with a joke or a loving message, and colorful or character-driven pencils and other school supplies are some to try.be consistent and stay strongthough you may win your child over in the short-term by packing the lunch of their dreams, consistently serving up nutritious fare is the best way to ensure their good health over time. and keeping their bodies healthy benefits their wellbeing in many ways. eating well and taking care of growing bodies can lead to improvements in school and on the field, help children grow optimally, boost body confidence, and reduce acne  all meaningful to school-aged kids. it may be hard to resist your childs charm as he or she clamors for cookies, chips, sugary sips, and fluffy white bread, but introducing kids to better options when theyre young and impressionable can have a life-long impact.introducing kids to better options when theyre young and impressionable can have a life-long impact.as you start packing new items in your childs lunch box, dont be discouraged if certain items come home uneaten. keep it up! remember that it could take several attempts to get your child to try something new. make a game of it, say, by encouraging your child to try two foods of the same color (maybe a cherry tomato and a red pepper slice) or two foods that start with the same letter (avocado and asparagus), and ask which one was preferred and why. remember that children respond to praise so pile it on as a reward for trying something new!packing a healthier lunchlooking for lunch box inspiration? here, some registered dietitians show you healthy and clever ways to feed growing bodies. youll notice a variety of whole grain options, from cereal to whole grain frozen waffles, which come together to create deliciously healthy meals for kids. treats, when provided, are kept small. meals provide produce, whether as part of the main course or on the side (or both). and while sandwiches are still featured in lunch boxes, parents today are packing other options to keep things interesting!a nutritious lunch 3 waysdietitians cheyenne richards, mba, rdn, ld and kayla fitzgerald, rdn, ld give you multiple ways to hit several food groupsincluding plenty of fresh producein one lunch box. the variety helps fuel daily activity and adds fiber which has many benefits, they say. keep in mind that these lunches may be best suited for elementary-aged children, but upping the serving size would make them appropriate for older kids. and if your child often turns up her nose at your lunch offerings, take note: picky eaters will love these meals as they are diverse, yet not overwhelming and there are plenty of finger foods, they say.alphabet lunch boxholley grainger, ms, rd, lunch box-packing mom and creator of cleverful living, shares this clever tip. have some lunch box fun and combine learning with alphabet lunch boxes that feature nutritious and yummy foods from a to z. start monday with a bento box packed with favorites that begin with letters a through e. continue throughout the week concluding with v through z on friday. these simple lunches are ideal for preschool through second grade, she says.healthier \"lunchable\" pizza lunch boxevery kid clamors for a lunchable kit, so pack a diy version for a fun twist on the classic pre-made lunch that uses simple and fresh ingredients, says grainger. her better-for-you lunch idea uses wholesome ingredients resulting in a lunch box with fewer preservatives and less sodium. graingers pro tip: let children help customize their lunch with their favorite pizza toppings.easy veggie egg muffinsanything in muffin form tends to go over well with the kids, and what i love about these is that they are protein-rich and a great way to get some veggies in, says jessica levinson, ms, rdn, cdn, culinary expert and author of \"52-week meal planner.\" she also points out that theyre freezer friendly, so with some planning, you can easily keep a batch in the freezer, which means theyre ready to be defrosted and popped in the lunch box in the morning.easy tuna edamame saladtheres a lot of research on the health benefits of fish, especially when it comes to brain development in kids, so i try to feed my kids fish at least once or twice a week. this easy tuna edamame salad is a great way to get a serving of omega-3 rich fish into kids diets, plus it packs in some veggies and plant-based protein from edamame, which is a favorite of many kids. serve it in between slices of bread or with crackers for scooping, suggests levinson.healthier chicken saladregistered dietitian and chef, jessica ivey packs this chicken salad, which trades half the mayo for nonfat plain greek yogurt. when you substitute greek yogurt in place of mayonnaise, you reduce the saturated fat while adding healthy nutrients, like bone-building calcium. i like to add whatever fresh fruit is in season, whether it be peaches, apples, or grapes, plus celery and red onion for more color and nutrition, and chopped nuts for crunch. pack with whole grain crackers and more fruits and veggies, she says.peanut butter and banana sushiif your child is married to her favorite pb&amp;j, this peanut butter and banana sushi might help her embrace more fruit in her meal. most picky eaters love this flavor combination and the finger food aspect makes it appealing for kids (and adults). for those with food allergies or nut-free classrooms, simply substitute sunflower butter or soy butter for an easy swap. its also a vegan recipe filled with plant-based protein, fiber and potassium, which are nutrients often lacking in lunch boxes, says lauren harris-pincus, ms, rdnsalad skewersif youre still wondering how to slip more veggies into your childs lunch box, heres a simple and creative idea. these salad skewers are a fun way to add vegetables to a lunch box, especially because they can easily be dipped in a packed container of your childs favorite dressing, hummus, or guacamole, says lindsey janeiro, rdn, clt of nutrition to fit. just be careful with the skewer; if there is a sharp end, be sure to cut it off with a pair of scissors prior to placing in the lunch box.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

outside of cyber monday, labor day weekend has traditionally been one of the years most celebrated shopping extravaganzas, with retailers ushering in mega sales on a variety of categories. big-ticket items like home appliances, mattresses and even automobiles historically see significantly reduced prices, as does summer apparel.if youre looking to save money on any of the above, you should find yourself in luck this weekend, but as with any jumbo savings holiday, youll need to do a bit of digging to find deals  that are truly worth it. to help, weve compiled an expert guide to navigating the labor day sales  and noted when it could be best to shop in-store versus online.better editors, writers and experts take care to round up the best sales and deals. better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every sale is independently scouted, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.summer apparelsummer [apparel] and back to school staples became available in stores near the end of june and early july, said sara skirboll, the resident shopping &amp; trends expert at retailmenot. two months [in] is historically the sweet spot when retailers tend to discount apparel items so you can expect to see great savings.clothes and accessorieshere is a selection of top labor day deals in apparel:forever 21 is offering 50 percent off in-store and online. if shopping online use coupon code extra50, and go through retailmenot to get up to $20 cashback site-wide.levis is hosting 30 percent off site-wide with the code save30 and up to 60 percent off sale styles. via retailmenot, you can get $10 back on online buys of $100 or more, and $20 back on orders at or over $150.jcpenney is touting 25 percent off an online purchase of $100 or more on select apparel, shoes, accessories, fine jewelry and home goods. separately, shoppers can get an extra 20 percent off on any purchase paid with a jcpenney credit card, or an extra 15 percent off with any other method of payment. topcashback is also offering 10 percent cashback at jcpenney, giving shoppers, says chelsea hudson, personal finance expert at topcashback.old navy may be the winner for best deal here with 50 percent off all jeans, t-shirts, sweatshirts and dresses.appliances, home goods and outdoor gear\"if youre in the market for new kitchen gadgets and appliances, youll find sales on refrigerators, stoves, dishwashers, washers and dryers, says hudson.heres a roundup of striking sales:sears is offering up to 40 percent off appliances plus free delivery ($399 and over), and you can nab an extra 10 percent online with the coupon code appliance10, plus another 10 percent when using a sears card.bestbuy is also featuring up to 40 percent off on appliances.home depot has outdoor power tools for up to 30 percent off, grills for up to 15 percent off, up to 20 percent off fans and lighting and up to 44 percent off select motion activated kitchen faucets.wayfairs labor day clearance touts up to 70 percent on kitchen goods and major appliances, 65 percent off on living room, bedroom, office and outdoor furniture, in addition to lighting and storage goods and pet picks. bedding and rugs can be bought at markdowns up to 75 percent.lowes has a range of home items (discounts vary) on sale, with some items reduced by as much as 50 percent.mattressesnew mattress models hit the market right around now, so expect to see discounts on older models, said skirboll. unlike electronics which are always being updated with the newest bells and whistles, last years mattress model will have all the same functionality as the new designs, so i recommend taking advantage of these sales if youre looking to refresh your sleeping set up.virtually every major retailer who sells mattresses has a big sale going on right now.some top contenders:sears has lowered prices by as much as 60 percent on mattresses, as well as at jcpenney.macys has a lowest price of the fall season section on its site, with some mattresses touting savings north of 50 percent.mattress firm is selling selections for up to 50 percent off.wayfair has up to 70 percent off mattresses.take 10 percent off mattresses at casper with the code slumber10  not bad when you consider a twin in its essential mattress line retails for just $350.additionally, you can get 75 percent off bedding at wayfair, 60 percent off comforters and quilts at kohls and 70 percent off sheets at macys.soon to be outdated iphones\"historically, apple announces new iphone models in september, so youll start to see discounts on older models, says hudson. those who dont mind missing out on the newest update can save up to $200 on iphone 7 and iphone 7 plus at bestbuy when you buy and activate with a monthly installment plan. verizon wireless is also offering $100 off iphones with an upgrade or add a new line and get $300 off. to sweeten the deal, topcashback gives $100 cashback for new verizon device payment activations.\"new carslabor day is renowned for car sales and deals, meaning that consumers in the research and planning phase may purposefully hold out or plan ahead to buy a car this weekend, knowing there will be an abundance of deals, said curtis tingle, cmo of valassis. confirming this thought, our consumer intelligence showed a significant spike in consumers looking online for cars around labor day in 2017. we can expect fantastic deals on cars this weekend to help drive new automobile lease and purchase activity.for these deals, geography is key, so your best bet is to check in with local dealerships, even if that means simply visiting their social media pages.brick-and-mortar may offer better sales on touch-and-feel itemsmany of the sales currently advertised are online only, but we can expect a strong in-store presence come the actual weekend. in fact, deals could be even mightier at the brick-and-mortar level.brick-and-mortar stores are still struggling profoundly, and re-strategizing to be a tactile experience, jeffrey galak, associate professor of marketing at the tepper school of business, carnegie mellon tells nbc news. their advantage is that they offer a touch-and-feel experience, so i expect they will heavily push those items like clothing  this labor day. its an experience you cant get online.marshal cohen, chief industry advisor at the npd group, adds that though the online deals are compelling, you can almost guarantee better labor day deals in-store on a few key items.the best places to look for deals on outdoor furniture, summer apparel, and even the pre-season coat is in-store, versus online, says cohen. bicycles will also be better to buy in-store, as will outdoor toys. the online mattress industry has taken such a chunk our of the in-store business, so i think [mattress retailers] will get very aggressive this weekend at the brick-and-mortar level.more from betterback to school lunch gear that make healthy eating even easierbest workout shoes for womengear that takes your fitness routine to the next levelwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

want to write a book? lose weight? learn spanish? tackling a major goal may seem impossible, but 15 minutes a day is all it takes, according to musician and journalist paul cantor.can you do it for 15 minutes? because often youll find that you can, and that kind of gets you out of just wanting to do something and really puts you to the test, cantor tells nbc news better.the goal, he says, is to stop procrastinating and simply give it a try.if you can get all 15 minutes consistently for a week  two weeks  three weeks, before you know it, you find you have a little bit of a practice, says cantor.breaking life into small chunksthe 15 minute rule doesnt have to only apply to major projects, says cantor. the busy writer, who is self employed, says he often uses it for mundane tasks like completing invoices and transcribing interviews.in a weird way i try to break life into a lot of 15 minute chunks, he says.cantor says 15 minutes is just an easy end point to get you immersed in whatever it is youre trying to stop procrastinating on. when you commit to just 15 minutes, he explains, you trick your brain into seeing the project as a less intimidating task.cause 15 minutes is like nothing in the grand scheme of things, he says.the writer says he first started using the rule when he sat down to write a 100 page proposal for a book he is currently writing. since it wasnt a project with an immediate deadline, he found that he would often procrastinate, he says.i would just say, take 15 minutes and just see if you can get like two or three sentences down, he recalls.he says that taking five minute breaks in-between those 15 minute chunks helped chop up the monotony of what seemed like a monumental task.id take a five minute break, come back, do 15 more, take a five minute break, he says. before you knew it, i might have had two hours  three hours behind me, and id have like an hour of rest.the writer says he also used the rule to learn how to play the piano when he was in his late 20s.i would find sometimes practicing for an hour was challenging for me, not because i didnt want to practice for an hour but just because the muscle memory in my hands wasnt strong enough to last for an hour, he says, noting that his arms would get tired after long periods.but i could go for 15-30 minutes, cantor says.achieving big goals is often a series of small stepscantor says the 15 minute rule is a great way to test your genuine interest in a project and whether you have the stamina to see it through.i think often, people, their heads are in the clouds, you know what im saying? says cantor. and they just see like a big banner that says like music career or writing, and they think its really mystical and magical, and its really not. its actually a series of small steps over a very long period of time that add up to something.how to use the 15 minute rulebreak everything into 15 minute chunks: a major project may seem less intimidating if you commit to working on it for small periods of time. it can also make it easier to get into the flow of things to be able to work on it for longer.take 5 minute breaks: if the task is too monotonous, take small breaks between those 15 minute chunks and work on something else.achieving big goals is often a series of small steps: dont fall into the trap of thinking your dreams will manifest themselves. big goals are often achieved over a long series of small steps.more bright ideasforget to-do lists. a might-do list helps you work smarterusing a burner list to reach major life goals7 questions to ask to help make sense of your life

cheating is fairly common. according to a 2015 poll by yougov/the economist, one in five americans admit to having been unfaithful within the context of a committed relationship. and many of those who havent been unfaithful have at least considered it  41 percent of men admit to thinking about cheating on their partners, as opposed to 28 percent of women.this is where micro-cheating might come into play. the relationship experts we spoke to define micro-cheating as behaviors that hover near the mutually agreed upon boundaries in your relationship that comprise fidelity  from logging on to a dating site to see whats out there, to forging emotional relationships that are more emotionally charged and sexually tinged than a typical, platonic connection.ty tashiro, psychologist and author of \"the science of happily ever after: what really matters in the quest for enduring love\", defines micro-cheating as a relatively small act of emotional infidelity with someone outside of a persons committed relationship that mostly occurs through occurs through apps, texting, or online interactions.but is micro-cheating, cheating? tashiro believes so. though micro-cheating does not involve physical contact with someone outside the committed relationship, its important to avoid the temptation to overemphasize the micro part of the phrase and remember that cheating is the operative word, he says. when one betrays a partners trust there are always emotional consequences for the partners well-being and the integrity of the relationship.the damage lies in the deceptionrobert weiss, lcsw, csat and ceo of seeking integrity, an online community that addresses behavioral health challenges, says the difference between micro-cheating and full-on infidelity is better defined by how much your secret interactions might affect your partner when he or she finds out.different behaviors might be infidelity for one couple, micro-cheating for another couple, and not a problem at all for another couple. cheating, micro or otherwise, is less about the particular behavior, and more about the keeping of secrets and the impact of those secrets when uncovered, says weiss. for instance, some couples would think that flirting is ok, some couples would call it micro-cheating, and others would call it full-blown infidelity.is micro-cheating the same as a wandering eye?why do people feel compelled to micro-cheat? a variety of reasons, says weiss. i suspect that most micro-cheating is done on impulse, for a bit of excitement or extra stimulation. its like ordering cheesecake for dinner instead of a salad. you get a little bit of a rush from it without going totally overboard, he explains.weiss says its somewhat normal to find other people attractive within a committed relationship  just not to act on it. being in a relationship does not mean you never notice anyone other than your partner, says weiss. it also doesnt mean you cant enjoy it when someone flirts with you regardless of whether you respond in kind. nor does this type of behavior automatically reflect poorly on the strength of your relationship or how attractive you find your partner or how good your sex life is, he says.isnt micro-cheating just another buzzy term for having a wandering eye? it depends on how often the eye wanders, and when it does, if it lingers. recent research from florida state university examined how couples married for just over three years reacted to photos of potential partners. those who quickly looked away from the photos were less likely to cheat than those who didnt look away as quickly. they also discovered a tendency to put your partner above all others by devaluing or downgrading the attractiveness of potential romantic partners lowered the risk of infidelity.after all, solid relationships are based on trust  and micro-cheating isnt exactly a trustworthy behavior if youre keeping your interactions on the downlow. what is lost on many people who cheat is that their interpretation or rationalization of the cheating behavior does not matter, its the interpretation of their partner and their partners feelings that matter, says tashiro. theres an old saying in social psychology, whats perceived as real is real in its consequences, and that certainly applies to micro-cheating. when someone feels that there has been an infidelity, there is a sense that an agreed upon standard has been intentionally violated and its human to respond to deception with anger, distrust and loss of affection, he says.whats more, once trust is blown, its hard to regain and science says its for good reason. a study published in archives of sexual behavior found those who strayed in their first relationship were three times more likely to stray in their next relationship. and those who suspected their partners were stepping out on them were four times more likely to think their next partner was as well.honesty is the best policyso how should a couple best deal with micro-cheating? be honest and straightforward, says weiss: micro-cheating isnt necessarily a sign of anything except maybe that a couple needs to do a better job of communicating. and better communication can occur with or without therapeutic assistance. open, honest, non-reactive communication is the key to healthy intimacy. the more open and honest a couple is, the more intimacy they have. remember, with infidelity, its not the specific behavior, its the lying and secrets that drive a couple apart. if you can eliminate the lies and secrets, the relationship gets much stronger.and if your partner doesnt own up, you have to stand up for yourself and what you find acceptable, says tashiro. when partners rationalize their micro-cheating, it should come as a warning sign that they are insensitive to your needs and well-being. if the partner continues to micro-cheat or refuses to discuss the topic with you, then it might be worthwhile to seek professional counseling. after all, if you dont have a partner that isnt honest and doesnt respect your feelings and boundaries, your issues might be more macro than micro.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if you stalk the real estate listings in your neighborhood and make the open house rounds on the weekends you may feel pretty good about your real estate knowledge. i know i like to play the game of guessing my homes value every time a house near us sells. but real estate can be a high stakes game, even if it sometimes seems like play money being thrown around on real estate tv shows. a misstep can cost thousands, even tens of thousands of dollars, but how do you even know what you dont know?to get some insight into mistakes many of us may be making when it comes to our houses, i talked with seattle-based real estate expert aaron hendon. and did he set me straight.here are the six top things were getting wrong about real estate.1. you trust an algorithm knows your homes valuethe worst thing hendon sees, he told nbc news better, is homeowners who assume they know something about the value of a house. maybe they saw something about real estate prices on the news, or talked to their uncle, or saw it on zillow, he said. the absolute worst, he added, is to think that the zestimate is the true value of your home.the zestimate is an estimated value listed on popular real estate site zillow. and its notoriously off, hendon said. so badly so, in fact, that when zillow ceo spencer rascoff sold his condo, the the zestimate was 40 percent off.the problem is you cant do it by an algorithm because there are too many variables and they change too rapidly to get a good read, hendon explained. the assumption is theres a real inherent value to our house but there is not. theres what a buyer is willing to pay for it on the day they buy it and what the seller is willing to take for it. youre selling a commodity, one of multiple houses, and you have no idea whos shopping that particular week. how could you value your house by a computer estimate? at best its a guess.but its a shiny website and looks like it has authority, he said. its a real problem that people tend to weight those things heavily.there is some value to be found in the zestimate, however, hendon said. say i want to track my house value over time. i check the zestimate every six months, and its going up. it doesnt tell me what its worth but tells me its worth more than it was.2. you think your neighbors house will tell you your homes valueso the house up the street just sold. you quickly do the math and figure out the price per square foot, then apply that to yours: voila, theres your value.not so fast.the problem with that logic is you dont really know the details of the house that sold, hendon said, the particular way it was marketed, maybe the realtor did crappy pictures or maybe the owner took out loan after loan so theyre under water. they dont know the conditions upon which, or to whom it was sold, or the terms. it could have sold for cash, the owner could have been leaving the country or going through a divorce, and thats not even to mention the huge variance possible in the condition of the house.whats more, all square footage is not equal, he said. if it were, that would mean 4000 square feet should be worth twice as much as 2000. you need a first thousand to even have a house, the next thousands are options. what are those rooms? bedrooms are worth way less than bathrooms. people tend to gloss over a myriad of variables that are hidden, he said.3. you believe the appraiser sets the valuethe tendency is to live like the appraiser is coming up with the true value, hendon said. but, he reiterated, there is no value, it doesnt exist, its worth what someone will pay for it and youll accept.at the end of the day its a subjective valuation of your property, he said. the appraiser doesnt have to agree that you paid the right amount. their job in that case is to say to the bank, if this guy defaults youll be able to get your money back.while a common worry during homebuying and selling is that the house wont appraise for the sale price, rarely does it not come in at value, he said. by definition if youre willing to pay it, its worth it. why would you pay for it if it wasnt?this, at least, is one thing not to worry so much about.4. you think renovating before selling will boost the valuetempted to upgrade the kitchen or get new carpet right before you sell? thats a mistake, hendon said. dont redo your house right before you sell. i cant tell you the number of people i have to talk out of remodeling right before sale. im a little blunt, i go thats crazy thinking.he asks sellers to look at the math. youre going to spend how much to redo kitchen? say 15? do you think well get 20 more? the kitchen will be torn up for six months, thats got to be worth something, and then we dont know what the market will be in six months  and everyone may not love your choices.whens the right time to remodel? five years ago, hendon said.if you did it five years ago and you loved it and used it you dont care if you get the money back.if youre a professional flipper, go for it, he said. otherwise, clean it, get it neutral. youll get less, but the net will be the same. and you save yourself the hassle.5. you underestimate the role of the realtorhomes are the most expensive, most emotionally impactful, rarest sale and purchase in our lives, hendon said. what makes me craziest  when people go hire a realtor, they do it with due diligence of where to eat dinner. they hire their friend, they go to yelp or zillow and see stars, they use a discount broker or see a guys signs all over the neighborhood.none of it has anything to do with performance, he said. sure go try the chinese restaurant your friend recommends, but using your uncles realtor without asking them to show you how much they sell houses for compared to asking price, youre crazy.no one has ever asked me to see my last 12 months statistics, he said. that is crazy to me.it takes nothing to ask that. and no realtor should be offended by the question, he said. youre going to give someone $8,000 [commission] they should be ready to compete, they should be ready to fight for your business.6. you can save the six percent by selling the house yourselfwhile in a very hot market there could be value in a fsbo, or for sale by owner, the math on this rarely pans out, hendon said.first, its not six percent, because almost every buyer will have realtor, he said, so they still have to spend that three percent [for the buyers agent]. so youre down to three percent. which is still a lot of money.is it worth it? if you dont have a job [so you have the time], and youre ok with letting strangers in your house and leaving while theyre there, and doing all the work, and will somehow find a way to price it correctly, and dont mind the risk involved in the liability of getting it to close, and you who do not negotiate for a living, who do not sell a hundred houses a year are going to trust that the buyers agent is somehow not going to screw you over ... hendon said. well take that as a you do the math.when my husband and i sold our last house and bought our current one, some of the biggest value to us was our realtors role as counselor in guiding us through the process and keeping our best interests first in negotiations with our buyer and seller and their respective agents. it felt like a house of cards most days that would fall apart at any moment, but he made it happen and that was more than worth the commission.we also listed and sold our house for more than wed have ever tried ourselves. hendon wasnt surprised to hear this.the trouble with selling your own home, he said, is most people make it look like a yard sale. the same sign from home depot that says yard sale but it says home for sale. no one goes to a yard sale and pays full price, its a yard sale for gods sake.more from betterhow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayssmart money moves to make now to improve your finances in 2019want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

i never had any doubt that serena williams could rock a catsuit  or even a tutu, as she did this week at the u.s. open. and i definitely never doubted her ability to win another grand slam title one year  almost to the day  of becoming a mom. she is a superstar athlete who does everything with one goal in mind: winning.perhaps thats why, in previous years, it never crossed my mind that serena is just like me. but as she opened up about pregnancy, her harrowing birth story and the vulnerability of motherhood, we all started to feel that way. last week, on the eve of her return to the u.s. open, i sat down with williams on \"today\" to talk about her grand slam goals, embracing her critics and how she works through \"mom guilt\" with the help a few million friends on social media.this interview was edited and condensed for clarity.walk me through your year.williams: oh, its been an amazing year. having the baby and then coming back  its so special to have olympia turn one soon. maybe ill be playing on that day and ill just have those memories of being in the hospital and giving birth to my daughter. its been an amazing year, and i really look forward to getting back [to competing]. its going to be great.do you feel joyful?williams: you know, i feel a different joy. ive always been this joyful person, but now its just totally different. i feel just light. i feel lighter and happier. and its just a great feeling.youre back in new york and people are saying its a comeback. you very eloquently stole a line from l.l. cool j. and said, \"dont call it a comeback.\" why?williams: i was gone so i guess it is a comeback if you break it down. but for me, i was always there mentally. i always was watching and being a part of it. and i never wanted to hang up my racket at that point. so, im just still trying to compete and win grand slams  and do it while i have a daughter.does it show how tough people are on women? im guessing when your husband went back to work after olympia was born, no one called it a comeback tour for him.williams: exactly. right? but it is true. no one called his work a comeback, and he had to take time off, too. but, yeah, women definitely have a double standard in so many different things.and thats what im doing now. im lobbying and trying to break down all these double standards that we have to face on a daily basis. and just let people know that were here to stay, obviously, and we deserve to be treated just like our male counterparts.is it more important to win as a mother than it was before?williams: you know, its hard to say  i want to win, whether im a mom or not. obviously i want to win while having olympia. one day ill tell her that, you know, she was born and i still kept winning. but at the same time, i dont have to win another match in my whole life. ive done so much in my career, and right now i want to just focus on having fun out there. and ironically enough, thats when i started to play my best tennis.most of us would have guessed, given your training and travel schedule, you would not have your baby by your side, but you have. and youre not taking it as a burden. youre taking it as a gift.williams: i am taking it as a gift. we spent every day together since she was born, and i work around her. but im really fortunate. a lot of women dont have that opportunity.and, you know, in a weird way im kind of doing it for those women that cant. being around her every day is super important, and i want her to have just a great upbringing, the best way that i know how.youve shared this year that sometimes you worry that youre not going to be a good mom. all of us have that fear. but with you, everything youve ever done, youre excellent at. whos guiding you through this?williams: i have my mom. shes had five kids, and so thats really cool. but what i think is super interesting is the fact that im relying on everyone else. i think in this age of social media, it presents a different opportunity.i feel like moms are all  you know  were all the same people.so when im feeling down or im feeling stressed, i literally will write about it. ill go on either snap, instagram, twitter, facebook and i post an article. and i get the most impressive feedback and help. and i feel like im getting so much help from all the moms  and dads, by the way  and parents out there.like, when i missed olympias walking and i posted about it, and so many parents wrote in and said, \"dont worry about it. i missed it too!\" and i didnt realize that it was almost more normal to miss it than to make it. and so when i realized that, i was like, \"wow. this is great.\" so i really kind of rely on everyones help out there, and its been so, so, so amazing.we all have that guilt. what have those women and men told you?williams: its been so unreal. another time i said i didnt feel like i was being a good mom, and everyone was just chiming in and so supportive. and saying, \"by the way, we felt this way too.\" and so for me, it makes me just feel okay.i feel like moms are all  you know  were all the same people. it doesnt matter what race you are, what color you are, what background youre from. i feel like we all have a connection. we just want to help each other out. so im really using social media in a way to help me understand my struggles with my baby.do you ever worry that sharing this much only gives a narrative to the critics who want to doubt you?williams: i dont feel like im doing too much and giving critics a narrative. in fact, i love critics. i feel like you need the good and need the bad. superman needs lex luthor.and someone once told me  billie jean king  that pressure is a privilege. and im in a position where i feel that weight on my shoulders actually a privilege for me.what do you want to say to new york  to the world?williams: well, this is just the beginning. and for every new mom out there, this is the beginning of a new life. and its how i feel. this is the beginning of a new career for me.im not going be gone after the open. im going be in the next grand slam and the next and the next and the next and the next. its just going to keep going. and so yeah, im going for this one, but if not, theres one in january and theres four more. and therell be eight more. so, for me, its just the beginning...\"more stories on navigating motherhoodhow being a boss makes me a better mom3 things moms dont need to worry about when going back to workwhat its like to give up alcohol in a wine mom worldamerica has a motherhood problem  heres how to solve itwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram. by taboola sponsored storiesavoid grammatical errors with this helpful browser extensiongrammarlydo you know what your last name means?ancestry

running on no sleep, going through the motions somewhat clueless and feverishly googling is this normal? is a state of being new parents know all too well. the baby books may have given you a foundation, but nothing can prepare you for the day you bring your bundle of joy home and find yourself faced with the monumental task of caring for a life completely dependent on you.wouldnt it be amazing to have someone there to teach you the ins and outs of caring for your baby, help tend to them in the middle of the night (so you can get some much needed rest) and work towards establishing a sleep schedule to have them sleeping through the night by the time you plan to head back to work?it may sound like a dream fueled by sleep-deprivation, but for those who hire a night nanny it is very much a reality.i was looking for extra help for when i had my daughter and would be on maternity leave, mainly because my husband works and travels quite a bit and he had business trips at that time and i have no family near me, elizabeth torres, co-founder and ceo of a public charter school in washington, dc, tells nbc news better. i wanted the help so i could make sure i could return to work after 8 weeks. i also wanted somebody to help show me the ropes on how to care for a newborn baby. id had experience with children, but none with newborns.kristina godfrey, co-founder of pr agency, gspr, who lives in corona del mar, california, also used a night nanny for all three of her children, but says she originally stumbled upon the idea by chance. my husband was actually on a flight for a business trip and happened to be sitting next to a couple who had a baby. when my husband shared that we were having a baby they told him that the best tip they could give him would be to hire a night nanny, she told nbc news better. they went on and on about how it was a life saver. when my husband came home he told me we had to hire one. i dont know this couple but i feel like they were a gift from god.the childcare trend isnt a new one, according to jospehine chrouch, owner of new york agency lullaby baby nurses. night nanny services have been in use for a long time, especially by mothers whove had a c-section or difficult labor, she explains. however, while she has seen a steady clientele since the companys inception in 2006, she does say that there are still many parents who do not know what a night nanny is, or that the service is even an option.what exactly does a night nanny do?most people are familiar with daytime nannies  someone hired to take care of children while their parents are at work or busy during the day, or in some cases, around the clock. night nannies  also referred to as newborn specialists  perform a similar service, but only during the nighttime hours.night nannies typically work with you starting the day you come home from the hospital for a period of 8-12 weeks, coming in the evenings and leaving early in the mornings (though they can stay all day if the service is requested.) the nannies handle everything pertaining to the baby in the period of time theyre there, granting exhausted parents some much-needed rest  mothers are only roused during the night to breastfeed.for me, it was peace of mind. i knew that i could sleep and feel confident my baby was being well taken care of. i was so paranoid with the first baby i would listen to him breathe all night so even when he was sleeping, i wasnt, says godfrey, who hired her nanny three nights a week. the times that the night nanny came, i would go to bed and hit the pillow and feel like a million bucks the next day which made that night without the nanny bearable.beyond allowing you to get much-needed rest, night nannies can be an invaluable resource, especially for those who are brand new to parenthood. torres says her night nanny provided one-on-one coaching, educating her on other aspects of caring for her baby. my night nanny taught me swaddling and sleep training; my child was sleeping through the night at about 8 weeks. after the nanny left, my baby had a few little regressions that i dealt with myself, but a really good structure had already been set in place, she says. i needed somebody to set up a feeding schedule, and she did that. she taught me how to bathe the child. she showed me how to set up the nursery and how to respond to certain situations; like if my daughter jane was fussy or crying.godfrey echoed this sentiment: \"she taught me how to breastfeed in the beginning and how to care for a newborn. it is scary when you come home with your first baby and she was just so comforting.while torres initially hired her nanny for 8 weeks, she extended her for two more when her husband had a few business trips pop up. godfrey, on the other hand, hired her night nannies for longer time frames: with my first son, we used her for 6 months. my third son had acid reflux and really was up and down all night so i used her for 9 months with him, she says.how to find the best night nanny for youtorres ultimately found her night nanny edmarine baker through lullaby baby nurses. baker, who has been a nanny for a decade, says that all night nurses arent the same, and its very important to choose one who is the right fit for your family. do your research! get at least 3-4 references from the nannies youre planning to hire, references that you can call and confirm their character from, she says.and the interview process should go both ways: baker ensures shes a good fit by meeting with the parents beforehand to discuss the structure of the arrangement, expectations and generally get a feel for each other. torres says that she interviewed a lot of night nurses before hiring baker. i asked a series of questions about experience, the approach that the nurse took with the child and what other duties they helped with, she says. edmarine had a ton of experience, was very confident and had great references. she was also very clear about the duties she would take on; which is basically just taking care of the baby. torres clarifies: i didnt expect for somebody to be a housekeeper or cook or to do all this other stuff. i wanted somebody who would totally focus on the baby.while not required, some night nannies choose to become certified as certified newborn care specialists, which requires a three-day training program and working a minimum of 1,800 hours and at least one years experience with newborns, according to the newborn care specialist association for certification, who also provides other training programs including a sleep training certification.chrouch explains that at her agency, parents play a large role in the selection process. they decide who they would like to hire out of the choices available, she says. i give clients the option to interview. i dont just pair them with night nanny candidates, i get them involved. one advantage of utilizing an agency is that they handle the pre-screening process. chrouch says that lullaby baby nurses provides a background check and a physical (including the flu and the tdap shot) for every night nanny, in addition to ensuring that all of their nannies are infant and child cpr certified.choosing to go through an agency may add an additional upfront expense, as many agencies charge a \"finders fee,\" that can range from a couple hundred to a couple thousand dollars. for some couples, word of mouth may help cut down on these costs. i did my research by asking friends that had already had babies, and for my first son, i called a nanny service where i ended up hiring one from, says godfrey. since i became close to the first one, she introduced me to her daughter who became my second one. by the time my third child was born, those two ladies had moved on to different professions. however, a friend of mine had someone that she was just finishing up with so i used her and she was great.are night nannies just for wealthy families?you may be thinking, this sounds great  if you can afford it. but contrary to what you may be thinking the service isnt only an option for wealthy families. while it may be a luxury for some families, to others its a necessity  whether its because they have no family around to help or one or both of the parents travel frequently for work or have stressful jobs.although out of reach for many families, planning and budgeting in the months leading up to your newborns arrival can allow some parents to utilize the resource. my husband and i both work and it was something that we had talked about; due to his work schedule, we knew that we needed that extra support, says torres. so we just started saving and budgeting for it.while prices differ from nanny to nanny (or agency, depending), the average cost per night  say 7 p.m. to 6 a.m.  is approximately $200-250, according to chrouch. most night nannies work for about 10-12 hours each night. some offer 24-hour services, too.while the idea of paying a nanny to tend to your baby overnight may be foreign to some, paying for child care certainly is not. and parents are no strangers to shelling out cash for child care. a 2017 cost of care survey conducted by care.com found that 32 percent of families spend 20 percent or more of their annual household income on child care, and almost 50 perfect are spending ten percent of their income. and despite the high child care costs, the majority of families (81 percent) say its money well spent and that their current child care plan is worth the money.the survey also found that the majority of parents (72%) plan for the cost of childcare before the child is born.for those who have cant afford a full-time nanny, depending on the agency, special arrangements can often be made to accommodate tighter budgets, such as shortened time frames or alternating nights.we make arrangements for certain clients as the reality is that not all have the same budget. we negotiate and it does not affect the quality of the services, says chrouch. its almost like shopping. some stores will give you a deal and some wont. most of my clients are young and some are not quite established yet, so we see the need to make adjustments and offer part-time services.godfrey took advantage of part-time services: it is definitely expensive. we opted to do it for three nights a week so that i would only have every other night to worry about, she says. our motto was: literally worth every penny and if you have to skip vacations for a few years, you will not regret hiring one.the emotional concerns: will people think im lazy? and will i still bond with my baby?there are always friends, family members and co-workers offering up their two cents  especially when it comes to how we parent. thankfully, those who have enlisted the services of a night nanny say they didnt feel judged for choosing to have some extra help. plus, the service is gaining momentum, not only in the u.s, but in europe too. more and more new parents are realizing that they need extra help  and that theres simply nothing wrong with that.i think in this day it is pretty common for people to have night nannies/nurses, torres says. a lot of my friends have had one; some didnt, but i didnt get any negative feedback or judgment. i just got some people who said, oh, i wish i had one.i did feel a little guilt but not enough to deter me, says godfrey. i mostly was concerned what others were going to think of me but i got over that pretty quick. i think i might have gotten some judgment but my mom was so great and was all for it so that helped. my husband doesnt do well with lack of sleep and i knew he would be no help at night so i think that also helped me not feel bad about it. and that was definitely his reason for encouraging me to hire one.concerning her feelings about letting someone else take care of her newborn, torres says, i did not experience any separation anxiety because i was up multiple times a night feeding my baby. edmarine would just put her back to sleep so i could get more sleep.even though a lot of time has passed, torres says shes still in contact with baker: we keep in touch; she gave me a lot of advice through phone/text the month after she left. as it is, we still have a strong bond and i am very grateful that i found her.godfrey shared a similar sentiment, saying she, too, keeps in touch with her night nannies to this day. in fact, they became a part of the family, she says.torres says she has no regrets about hiring a night nanny  to the contrary, she says the experience was invaluable. her help was really valuable because she is just so experienced, as well as kind and compassionate, she says. the entire experience was good for me and it built my confidence in taking care of my daughter.more parenting tipswant compassionate, bully-proof kids? do thisrealistic screen-time solutions for kids and their parents7 surprising benefits of being an older parenthow being a boss makes me a better momwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

two years ago, my boyfriend and i bought plane tickets for our first big trip together. we were going to berlin for six days  his first time in europe, my first in germany. and thanks to booking with a budget airline, it was only costing us $350 a person. we were so excited.that is, we were so excited...until we actually read the fine print. it was one of those bare-bones budget airlines where everything extra ends up costing you. so, while the flights themselves were only going to cost us $350 round-trip each, that didnt include other travel necessities. we ended up paying an extra $100 each just to carry on a bag  the only thing included with our tickets was one personal item each. we wanted to sit together on our flights, which meant we each had to pay another $40 total to pick our seats. the planes also didnt have any complimentary meal service, and since we didnt plan ahead and pack some snacks, we ended up splurging on overpriced, mediocre sandwiches. plus, it was an iceland-based airline, and all of their trips included a stopover in reykjavik. this meant we had to get all the way through customs and onto our next flight leg in the span of our 40-minute layover, which was way too close for comfort for me.all in all, we had a wonderful trip  and we also decided that saving a few bucks with a budget airline just wasnt worth it for us. after tallying, we could have spent about the same amount to fly on a nicer airline and have no layover, some food included, a free carry-on bag, and, if im being honest, a much more comfortable seating situation. (budget airlines tend to scrimp on whatever isnt necessary which, going off my personal experience, includes cushioning.)im hardly the first person to see through the budget-friendly claim these airlines are making, and i also know there are plenty of other travel savings scams out there. i decided to reach out to some experts in the travel and personal finance worlds to find out which budget travel traps to avoid, or at least be wary of  heres what they had to say:1. travel rewards credit cardstravel hacking has become a huge trend in the world of travel bloggers. essentially, it includes a variety of ways to score things like flights and hotel stays for free or cheap through using credit card points. oftentimes, travel rewards credit cards will include a tempting sign-up points bonus, giving people incentive to apply for a card to fund their upcoming vacation.but these cards can end up costing you more than they save if youre not careful.credit card companies offer travel reward cards where you can earn free airline miles because they count on the fact that the consumer will overspend and end up paying more in interest than they are saving, says finance expert amanda abella. this can end up canceling out your free flight or costing you more than the flight would have cost.of course, there are ways to make these cards work in your favor  you just have to practice caution. to win the game that credit card companies are playing, you have to avoid paying interest, abella says. you can do this by paying off your credit card balances every month. also, keep a lookout for promotions and wait for the ones that provide the most miles. carry multiple cards and use the one that has the best promotion going at the time. besides earning you free flights, the bonus to frequently using credit cards and managing them carefully will be a better credit score.2. tourist package dealsin new york city, where i live, its common to see tourists taking advantage of a citypass, which includes admission to a wide variety of museums and attractions. but an adult citypass currently costs $126  and in such a large city, there might be many other attractions youre interested in that arent included in that fee.\"overbuying deals is a travel hack that can be a huge pitfall,\" says josh elledge, founder of savingsangel.com. \"be careful to not get overexcited by deals being offered and buy more than what you realistically have time for. youll find yourself rushing through activities, robbing you not only of money you didnt need to spend but also of the experience you desired.\"you could both be overpaying for the number of attractions you actually get to and be limiting yourself to a set itinerary. a deal like this only saves you money if you actually get to all the things it covers  otherwise, stick with booking activities a la carte.3. all-inclusive resortsone popular hack that seems like a money saver but is actually a money drainer, is booking at an all-inclusive hotel without reading the fine print, says megan wood, travel expert and editor at oyster.com, a tripadvisor company. travelers might see a resort that boasts 12 all-inclusive restaurants and unlimited free drinks, but on arrival find out that most of the restaurants require reservations, extra money or are only open two days a week. plus, the included liquor is low quality, and ordering a nice glass of wine or imported beer will cost extra.but if youre really into all-inclusive-style vacations, there are still good deals out there. wood says, check out websites that do the legwork for you (like oyster, forbes travel guide or tripadvisor) or call a travel agent and ask specific questions. some all-inclusive resorts are really good about providing a truly all-inclusive vacation, no hacks required. [for example,] the excellence brand doesnt upcharge for lobster and zoetry includes spa treatments.4. overseas rental carsbooking a car overseas often seems extremely reasonable when you book it via an online travel agent  but most tourists are in for a rude awakening upon arrival. this happened to denver-based entrepreneur and hobbyist travel hacker john doherty. i once booked a car through sixt in ireland that was a screaming deal, like $50/day for 10 days. when we arrived, we learned that they wouldnt take us car insurance and the total ended up being $1,200 for the trip instead of $600.if youre determined to rent a car during your international trip, be sure to ask the car company plenty of questions ahead of time and budget correctly. otherwise, taking advantage of public transportation may be your best savings bet.5. setting price alertsfinally, one of the biggest tips ive seen (and used!) to save money on flights is to set price alerts. but this might not be the best idea, according to jennifer mcdermott, a consumer advocate for finder.com.while price alerts appear help us track price movements on airfares, mcdermott says, they also provide the airlines with the intel of routes you are interested in, seeing prices go up the minute your first search is logged. one of the most cost-effective ways to get a good deal on your air ticket is to search in private or incognito mode in your browser. no search history will be attached to your request providing you with the lowest available fare every time you search.one of the most cost-effective ways to get a good deal on your air ticket is to search in private or incognito mode in your browser.of course, none of this is meant to scare you off  traveling on a budget is absolutely possible. plus, taking time off to recharge is necessary to keep being a happy, healthy human being. all of this simply boils down to three things: shop around, do your research and always, always read the fine print. otherwise, all that awaits you in your travels is lackluster plane food and paying far too much for a carry-on.more travel tipshow to pack a carry-on (so you dont need to check a bag)how beat back flight anxietyhow to find the best travel rewards credit card for youwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

be it a friend or person youre dating, when someone you care for ghosts you, or abandons you out of thin air without an explanation, its an awful, awful feeling. yet ghosting happens so often, the term has even inspired a halloween costume this year.ghosting is nothing new  youd be hard pressed to find a person alive who hasnt been ghosted at some point in their lives. but now its commonplace to forge connections with potential friends and partners remotely through a phone, ghosting is easier to do than ever. heres some proof: this oft-quoted, alarming, 2016 statistic from the dating site plenty of fish reveals that 78 percent of 800 millennials surveyed between the ages of 18-33 claim theyve been ghosted.swiping culture reduces humanity to something quite basic, says author rosie walsh, who was inspired to write her best-selling novel ghosted after a friends boyfriend went from planning a vacation with her to vanishing from her life without a trace. when youre rejecting 200 people a night, it dehumanizes the dating pool in which you stand, she says.when youve been ghosted, you might go through a few emotional stages:shock and denialonce youve gone through the trouble of emotionally investing in someone, it can be shocking when they suddenly decide to opt out of your life. on the surface, ghosting always sends the message that says, not only am i not interested in having a relationship with you, but i am not interested in talking to you, or im unable to talk to you about this directly, walsh explains.at a deeper level, ghosting suggests a problem with the person doing the ghosting, but instead the person being ghosted might think there is something wrong with them, says scott t. wilson, a clinical psychologist and adjunct assistant professor in the department of counseling and clinical psychology at teachers college columbia university.humiliationsocial media can abbreviate any denial period about whether or not, or why you were ghosted, and all that wondering about what couldve possibly happened can quickly turn into feelings of humiliation. walsh says \"ghosting isnt new, but what social media does is it gives us 20 ways of being in contact with each other... if theyre still not choosing any of those 20 means to contact you, and you can watch them on social media and see they are, indeed, alive and well, you have to acknowledge that the person ghosting you is being rude and disrespectful.self-doubtfeelings of humiliation can easily turn inward, and it can be easy to start questioning what you did to prompt the ghosting. your immediate thought is whats wrong with me?, says walsh.the lack of explanation leads the person being ghosted to attempt to figure out the other persons motivations, explains wilson. regardless of the length of the relationship, many people would be more likely to explain the ambiguity (of the situation) with what i would call the worst-case scenario explanation: there must have been something wrong with them (for the ghost to leave). this explanation can lead to feelings of shame, guilt, or self-blame, and can lead a person down the path of trying to figure out what they might have done wrong. it can make that person less confident in their next relationship and perpetuate any self-esteem issues.anger and closureeventually, those with healthy self-esteem will likely get angry at the ghost for putting them through all of these changes and write them off as selfish and/or immature. but even so, the healing can take some time. the longer the relationship lasted and the stronger the attachment, the more difficult this is to do, and the more of a sense of loss a person would experience, wilson says.how to get over being ghostedit might take some time but if youve been ghosted, closure is the best gift you can give yourself. complete cessation of contact is walshs primary ghosting recovery recommendation. as soon as you suspect youve been ghosted, dont reach out, walsh advises. even if the person ghosting you has been in a coma, theyll eventually get in touch if they want. no matter what they do, how many times they come back, you have to just take the pain all in one go and stop looking for closure. when someone ghosts you, youve got closure  its just a rude disrespectful version of closure. nothing could be clearer. being ghosted is humiliating enough, but if youve behaved in ways that you find shameful, it compounds the misery. if you walk away with all of your pain and refuse to chase them, youll recover more quickly.besides, youre better off without someone who doesnt respect you enough to end things face-to-face. the most important thing to remind yourself of, is the very fact that the person who chose to end their relationship with you in this way suggests there is some problem with them, rather than you. whether it is a difficulty dealing with emotional issues, difficulty with commitment or just callousness, the presence of these sorts of issues suggests they would not make a very good relationship partner and that you might be better off without them, advises wilson.and what if youre tempted to ghost someone?though ghosting may seem like an easy trap door escape from any relationship, think twice. despite the fact that it occurs relatively frequently, ghosting should really never be considered an appropriate way to end a relationship, says wilson. the best way to end a relationship for all parties involved is for the person ending the relationship is to explain their reasons for doing so to the other person. this shows the other person respect, helps them understand the situation and if needed, can help them to address whatever the issue is that led to the end of the relationship.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

tea is the second most widely consumed beverage in the world (next to water), according to the food and agriculture organization of the united nations. while coffee drinking overshadows tea consumption in the united states, the tea association of the u.s.a. reports that 80 percent of american households have some form of tea in the cupboard, and more than 159 million americans drink it on a daily basis.with these impressive stats, its no wonder that new brands of tea and tea blends are constantly popping up on store shelves. a quick google search for types of teas returns an overwhelming 20+ selections, and that doesnt even include the many different flavors. while the sheer magnitude of tea options may be overwhelming, the good news is that many studies suggest that tea is a generally healthy beverage  especially if youre using it to replace sugary beverages or fight the midnight munchies. but some of the touted benefits should be taken with a grain of salt: many believe that drinking green tea can help you shed pounds or lower stress levels, but both claims are a bit exaggerated. no tea alone will shrink your waistline (although there is some evidence for its metabolism-boosting benefits), and the calming effects have only been observed when drinking caffeine-free green tea.instead of wandering down the tea aisle dazed and confused, try these sips for their science-backed benefits.best tea for an energy boost: yerba matethe most widely consumed drink in argentina, yerba mate is making its way to the u.s. made from the leaves of the argentinian yerba mate tree, this tea has been consumed in south america for centuries. the leaves are rich in tannins, which give the tea a slightly bitter and earthy flavor. for anyone looking for an energy boost, yerba mate may be your new best friend. it has more caffeine than practically any other tea, with 78 milligrams in eight ounces. to put that into perspective, a cup of joe has about 85 milligrams per eight ounces, so yerba mate comes in a close second. for those looking to move away from coffee but still want their caffeine fix, yerba mate may be the next best thing.best tea for when youre sick: ginger teaif youre feeling the nausea, aches and chills that accompany most forms of sickness, reach for a cup of ginger tea. most commercially available ginger teas are a blend of herbal caffeine-free tea with ginger extract or you can steep ginger in hot water for a homemade version. while it wont shorten the duration of your illness, ginger is believed to help counteract the nausea that occurs with many ailments. as a matter of fact, research suggests that ginger may reduce chemotherapy-induced and pregnancy-induced nausea.best tea to drink after a morning workout: matchatea may not be on your list of post-workout beverages, but some are rich in inflammation-fighting antioxidants. matcha is a green tea made from ground whole tea leaves mixed with water to make a brewed tea. on its own, matcha has a very earthy acquired taste. because its made with the whole leaves of the tea plant, matcha contains more antioxidants than traditional green tea. it also has a compound called ecgc, which may contribute to fax oxidation during exercise, according to early research. and good news for morning exercisers, an eight-ounce serving of matcha tea has about 70 milligrams of caffeine. one caveat: since it does have a strong taste, many matcha drinks contain a good amount of added sugar, so be sure to read labels carefully and stick to plain, matcha tea instead of fancy coffee shop beverages that utilize the ingredient.best tea to drink before bed: chamomile teaknown as the most relaxing tea, chamomile is an herbal caffeine-free tea brewed from the leaves of the chamomile flower. with a mild, slightly sweet and flowery taste, its a comforting, hot beverage that is sure to calm you before bedtime. chamomile has long been thought to have a sedative effect, and recent research gives some proof to the claim. specifically, drinking chamomile tea has been shown to ease sleep problems in postnatal women and elderly adults.best tea for metabolism: green teagreen tea has received praise as the metabolism-boosting tea, and the claim has some merit. a meta-analysis suggests that drinking green tea in addition to a reduction in calories can result in weight loss. as with matcha, this breakdown of fat can be attributed to the compound egcg. heres the thing though  supplementing with 250 milligrams of egcg (or about the amount in 3 cups of green tea) will burn about 100 calories. so for those drinking one cup of green tea per day, youre likely only burning an extra 30 calories. adding a mug wont cause the pounds to fall off, but sipping green tea at night is a great strategy to reduce cravings and prevents you from raiding the pantry.best tea for cholesterol: black teano one tea is going to magically lower your cholesterol while you munch on burgers and fries, but black tea in combination with a healthy diet can help! this everyday tea is rich in antioxidants known as polyphenols, and an abundance of research suggests that consuming it on a daily basis may be beneficial to the heart. as a matter of fact, a review in the european journal of clinical nutrition states that drinking more than three cups of black tea per day is associated with a reduced risk of coronary heart disease. another meta-analysis in plos one examined fifteen randomized controlled studies and found that drinking black tea seems to lower harmful ldl cholesterol (bad cholesterol) in healthy adults. a recent review also suggests that black tea can also reduce ldl cholesterol in those with a higher risk for cardiovascular disease. an 8-ounce serving of black tea does have about 45 milligrams of caffeine (about half the amount in coffee), so it may be best to incorporate it into your morning routine as to not interfere with sleep.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the pros and cons of intermittent fastingwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if youre a parent or are friends with one right about now, your facebook and instagram feeds are likely clogged with an endless stream of proud back-to-school photos. its practically become a rite of passage for parents to snap and post these photos.even with all the hub bub around social media app security, you shouldnt expect much of a slowdown. as cnbc reports, social media apps facebook and instagram havent exactly been hurt by the cambridge analytica data scandal  a survey of about 1,300 u.s. facebook and instagram users found that two-thirds of respondents were logged on at least as much as they were last year. and it was just reported that facebook banned a quiz app amid concerns that data on as many as four million users may have been misused.even so, with all this going on, is it really safe to post something as personal as images of our kids anymore? we asked a couple of tech safety experts their opinion and they say yes  and no. there are some risks, but parents can mitigate them with a little forethought.whether its posting back-to-school pictures or family vacation pictures, we should always be aware that were actively creating a digital brand for our kids without their input or permission. what may be cute, sweet or funny to us as adults may not be to our kids down the line, so we should always be cognizant of that. of course, we also run the risk of giving out too much information, and that information ending up in the wrong hands, says katie greer of kl greer consulting, a firm that educates schools, law enforcement agencies, large corporations and community organizations about the ins and outs of internet and technology safety.whether its posting back-to-school pictures or family vacation pictures, we should always be aware that were actively creating a digital brand for our kids without their input or permission.what kind of information? for starters, your home or school address. a photo that you take of your kids on your front stoop, in your neighborhood or by the school entrance may contain personally identifiable information, such as your street name, house number, last name or your kids schools name, says caroline knorr, senior parenting editor at common sense media, a nonprofit organization designed to help kids and parents navigate media and technology.while the risk is fairly small, there are people with bad intentions  such as people looking to rip off photos to sell for stock photography, identity hackers, predators, or even sales people targeting parents  who troll social media platforms looking for any clues that could give them some way into your life, she says.before you know it, your personal photos can end up somewhere you least expect. screen shots, sharing, reposting, even innocuously, can mean these pictures unintentionally end up in places we never imagined, says greer. since there are so many users on social media, and technology moves so quickly, its often hard to contain posts that get out.how to post photos of your children safelyto do what you can to protect your back-to-school photos and your kids, keep these tips in mind:avoid geotaggingtheres no easier way to tell the world where you are, or were, than geotagging.tagging your kids at their school allows those posts to come up in searches, so i always advise people not to tag locations, just reference them in a caption, advises greer.erase location cluesmake sure any sort of personal way of identifying you or your children  such as your address, your kids schools name, or a uniform that might identify what school they go to, is out of sight in any photo you post.limit your audienceboth experts agree the first  and easiest  step to keep your photos away from potential interlopers is to simply adjust your privacy settings. make them fairly restrictive  to either friends only, or friends of friends, says knorr. or, create a custom, closed group of close friends and share your back-to-school photos that way. mind you, these settings arent by any means foolproof. most important is to understand that privacy settings are a courtesy, not a guarantee, says greer. theyre there to give users a bit more control of who has access to their information, but at any point in time this information can be shared, saved, hacked, etc., so theres no guarantee it wont go elsewhere.dont tag your child  or other children  in photos you sharefacebook works by creating connections. the more connections someone has, the more data it generates, which facebook and third parties can collect and monetize, explains knorr. the tag creates a link to the tagged users profile and that increases their digital footprint on the platform. your kids online visibility will increase, as well with more links or tags going to his or her profile. the more visibility, the less control you have over your own online identity. fortunately, facebook allows you to limit your tag settings. and dont forget to turn off facial recognition, which can also lead to increased visibility since it allows people to be tagged, even if the original poster doesnt know you personally, knorr adds.dont share photos of other peoples kids (unless you have permission)your kid is your business, but other kids are their parents business. its really hard in this sharing world we live in to balance our excitement with others expectations of privacy, says greer. before you post, always ask permission and dont assume. many parents of younger kids seem to be more and more against sharing any pictures or information about their kids.make your boundaries clearmake sure you have a trusted group of followers, and that those followers are aware of your boundaries around sharing your posts. a well-intentioned, over-sharing aunt, uncle or grandparent may not be as on top of their privacy settings as you are, says greer.so, when the first day of school comes, go ahead and tell your kids to strike a pose. they may not feel like smiling, but you can feel a little better about sharing whatever expression you get out of them.more back-to-school tipsa better morning routine for kids and parentsback to school lunch gear that makes healthy eating even easierhow and when to get the best back-to-school dealswant compassionate, bully-proof kids? do thiswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

credit card delinquencies on the rise. despite a strong economy and low unemployment, americans are falling behind in paying off their credit card debt.the delinquency rate on all u.s. credit card loans is 2.47 percent  up from 2.42 percent at the beginning of 2017 and 2.12 percent in the second quarter of 2015, according to the federal reserve bank of st. louis.that means more than $23 billion in credit card debt is currently delinquent  30 or more days overdue  according to a new report from the personal finance website nerdwallet.while lack of money is the most common reason for missing a payment, forgetting to pay the bill is often the case. for its 2018 consumer credit card report, nerdwallet surveyed 2,019 u.s. adults and found that:35 percent simply forgot to make the payment.33 percent needed the money to pay for essentials.32 percent needed the money for an unexpected expense.kim palmer, nerdwallets credit card expert, finds it troubling that so many people  65 percent of those surveyed  did not pay their bill on time because they didnt have the money. according to nerdwallets most-recent household credit card debt study, income growth isnt keeping up with some of peoples biggest expenses.peoples budgets are really stretched because the cost of certain essentials, like healthcare, food and housing, continue to go up and really put pressure on peoples budgets, palmer said. and so, people are turning to credit cards as a way to bridge the gap when they cant afford their monthly bills and then theyre unable to make the payments at the end of the month.nerdwallets report found that 25 percent of those whove been delinquent on a credit card payment said it was because they prioritized paying off other debt.peoples budgets are really stretched because the cost of certain essentials, like healthcare, food and housing, continue to go up and really put pressure on peoples budgets.research by the federal reserve in 2017 found that when theres not enough money to cover all monthly bills, credit card bills are more likely than other debt payments  rent or mortgage, car payment, or student loan  to go unpaid or partially unpaid.the high cost of paying latemore than one in five cardholders in the survey (21 percent) said they made a delinquent credit card payment sometime in their life. nerdwallet did the math: using a late payment fee of $27, thats more than $1.4 billion in penalty payments on a nationwide basis. and thats on top of the interest charged for carrying a balance.adding insult to injury, falling more than 60 days behind can trigger whats called the penalty apr which can be as high as 29.99 percent with some cards. that penalty apr, which makes it more expensive to carry that balance, can last for up to six months before the credit card company reviews your account to see if the rate should be lowered.lets say you carry a balance of $3,000 on a card with a 15 percent interest rate and it takes you 18 months to pay off that balance. the credit card payoff calculator at bankrate.com shows total interest will be $368. with a default rate of 29.99 percent, that jumps to $761, more than double the carrying cost.missing a payment can also decimate your credit score, because card issuers report delinquent accounts to the credit bureaus.the longer your account goes unpaid, the more damage you can do to your credit score and the more effort it will take to bring the account current, said bruce mcclary, vice president for communications at the national foundation for credit counseling (nfcc). once reported, a late payment could cause your credit score to drop more than 100 points in some situations.a poor credit score will make the cost of borrowing money more expensive and could result in being rejected for a mortgage or car loan. in some case, it could make it difficult or impossible to rent an apartment.what you can doall of these financial repercussions can be avoided with a more proactive approach, including:use automatic bill payset up email and text reminders of upcoming due datesat least make the minimum payment to keep the account from going delinquentif your statement comes at the wrong time of month for you, contact the credit card company to see if the statement date can be changed.when a late payment is unavoidable due to financial hardship, contact the credit card company before the due date to see if they can help you manage the situation. this would also be the time to get some expert guidance from a nonprofit credit counselor. you can find one near you on the nfcc website.silence will only lead to setbacks, mcclary told nbc news better. keeping your credit card balances under control and spending within your budget will go a long way toward protecting your credit health and your bottom line.more from betterhow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayshow stashing receipts saved one man over a $1,000 in 7 monthswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram

when charlee atkins, cscs, a personal trainer and founder of le sweat, brought a new stretch-focused program to soul cycle headquarters, she was surprised that it wasnt her fellow instructors who filled the room for a much-needed stretch session  it was the corporate staff who had been logging their hours in the office hunched over a computer.initially the class was for my peers, my fellow cycling instructors. i brought the class to the headquarters of my company and quickly realized how the class was huge benefit for my fellow desk warrior colleagues, says atkins, who defines desk warriors as workers who sit for over eight hours a day with very little movement. what i noticed was all of the corporate athletes, the ones who are sitting at their desk all day, are getting tight spots that are causing injuries.this realization encouraged her to develop le stretch, a program that utilizes lacrosse balls to open up the body and loosen up all the tight spots  the neck, the back, the lower hips, the shoulders  that develop from sitting all day long.what happens in our bodies when we sit at a desk all daythe body becomes injured when we overuse it, specifically joints, or constantly move our bodies without proper alignment. this is true in sports, and very true in a sitting environment, says atkins. the bottom line is, our species was created to move. we are hunter and gatherers. we had to be agile, we had to move quickly, carry heavy loads from one destination to the other, and the only tools we had were our bodies. weve now morphed into staying sedentary for over 8 hours a day, hunched over a computer. some of the only movement most of us get is standing up and sitting down, walking to and from our cars.if youre someone who spends a large chunk of your day sitting, pain or discomfort in areas like your neck, lower back and hips likely sounds familiar. but aside from simply causing discomfort, it can hinder our ability to carry out normal day-to-day movements, and in some cases contribute to more serious injuries.neck: our heads are always slightly tilted down (taking the neck portion of the spine out of neutral). we are mostly looking straight ahead at our computers, so the second you have to quickly look one way or other when you cross the street can tweak your neck, says atkins.shoulders: the back of our neck is lengthened from looking down at a computer, our shoulders creep up to compensate for our arms always being in front of us (typing). at this point everything is moving up, so the weight hunches us forward, creating a bigger thoracic curve, says atkins. elevated and protracted shoulders dont leave a whole lot of room to raise your arms overhead like if you needed to put something heavy up on the top shelf (or take it down).core: our cores cant engage when we are seated because our hips are completely flexed. which means the muscles in our lower backs are in the lengthened state most of the day with no core control to balance it, says atkins. we lose our core strength from sitting all day, which means when were walking our center (the core) is very weak when its job is to connect our upper bodies with our lower bodies, but also to transfer force from the upper body to the lower body. because the core is weak, our center of gravity is off, and with the force from our head weighing down our spine, we run the huge risk of slipping a disk.hips: the hips dont externally or internally rotate because were seated all day, so the moment you have to squat down to pick up your kid, there is no mobility to get you down low enough to the ground, therefore we use our back to lift heavy objects off the floor and  bam, a back injury, says atkins.quads: when we are sitting our quads, the biggest muscle group, arent used most of the day. the quads job is to bend and extend the knee, so the second we get up and try to walk down a set of steps, our quads cant do their job, which leads to knee injury and issues. and because all of this unbalanced, unsupported weight trickles down the knees and ankles, we lose mobility in our lower limbs, [resulting in] ankle and knee injuries galore.phew, doesnt that make you want to stand up and stretch and move? atkins asks.set a reminderas frightening as it may be to see the potential side effects of our sedentary lifestyle laid out before our eyes, unfortunately for most of us, we cant drastically change our day-to-day routine. but what you can do is begin to incorporate stretch breaks throughout the day to reduce the risks posed by being chained to your desk.its as little as grabbing a tennis ball and keeping it in your desk, or spending ten minutes at the end of the night to get a few little stretches in, says atkins. you know how people talk about writing [a reminder] to drink more water? one of my favorite tips to remind myself to stretch more is to write myself a note on a post-it note to say its time to stretch! and put it somewhere you will see it. every time you look at it you can remind yourself to sit taller or take a quick five minutes to do a stretch, or pull your ball out of your desk and do a quick stretch session.5 moves that will relieve tension from sitting all dayif i leave you with one thing: go into your garage, find a tennis ball, put it in your purse or bag, bring it to work tomorrow and give yourself a little massage midday.why use a ball? using the ball relives tension in the muscle immediately. its a quick way to feel less tense and less stressed, says atkins. for the best results start with the ball and the move on to traditional stretches. time wise, spend two minutes on a body part with the ball (aka rolling out the hamstrings) and then stand up and stretch the hamstrings for 30-90 seconds.working from the bottom up, here is a quick five-minute routine that will target each one of your pain points to relieve tension and reduce risk of injury.warm upthe muscles are cold when we are sitting all day. standing up is something we dont do enough of in general when we are sitting at desks, so i personally like to start my quick stretch sessions with movement. you can sit at your desk and roll your muscles out all day, however for best results you should roll out and then stretch and move the body so that it doesnt snap right back to its shortened state.to warm up, stand next to your desk and use it (or a chair) for stability. stand on the right leg and pull the left knee up as high as it will go (hip flexion). flex the right toe up towards the right knee. standing up tall, looking forward, take five deep breaths in this position. activate the left leg, glute and quad while you continue to pull your knee upwards. repeat on the left side.hamstringsstick the ball underneath your right thigh, getting into the hamstrings, and flex your right foot upwards (keeping your heel pointing towards the ground). rock the right leg from side to side. repeat on the left side. you can place the ball higher or lower under the leg, based on where your tight spots are.hamstrings are a tight spot for a lot of people. if youre a runner or if you walk up and down steps a lot  if you have tight hamstrings, this is a great hamstring release, says atkins.lower backput the ball right in the middle of your lower back, being careful to stay off the spine, focusing on the two muscles that run along either side of the spine. wedge the ball between the back of your seat and your back. press back into the ball and massage yourself into the ball loosening up the muscles all along the side of the spine.this is a great exercise to do on an airplane. if youre taking a long-haul flight and sitting there all day and get those middle, lower back pains, this is something you can do, says atkins. you can move the ball anywhere along the middle, lower region of the spine, staying off of the bone.neck/shoulder regionwhile sitting in your desk chair, place the ball right on the upper back, again to the side of the spine, and massage side to side. its that spot where people always say they need a massage, says atkins. if you want to get even more bang for your buck, abandon the chair and stand next to a wall.place the ball in the tight spot between your right shoulder blade and your spine. lean against the wall, wedging your body against the ball and walk your feet out away from the wall a few feet so that your body is at an angle. keep your head neutral. place your right hand by your right thigh, then raise it up above your head and back down. repeat on the left side. while in this positon, run through your morning routine with your arm: brush your teeth, drive your car, write  moving through some of those movements will help open up the back spot, says atkins.hipsstanding with your back to a wall, place the ball on the back right side of your body, directly in back of your hip bone. lean against the wall, and turn your right leg out on a diagonal, pushing your hips back into the ball. keep your torso straight, and lean it down in one fluid movement towards your right toe and then back up to standing. you can also twist your hips from left to right, massaging side to side to release the hips.neck stretcheswhen you dont have a ball with you, you can perform simple neck stretches right at your desk throughout the day. place your hands out to your sides (over top the arm rests if your chair has them). take two to three deep breaths, sitting up tall. take your right ear to your right shoulder and reach your left hand out a bit further. place your right hand on top of your head for a deeper stretch. hold for five deep breaths, continuing to reach the left hand out further. repeat on the left side.then, interlace your fingertips behind your head, elbows out to the side. bring the head straight down, pulling your chin towards your collarbone. give your head a gentle push, seeing if you can lift the elbows up higher. hold for two breaths. press your head back into your hands so youre looking towards the ceiling. pull your elbows towards the back of the room. hold for two breaths. come back to center.try these fitness routines10 core exercises that are better for your back (and body) than crunches5 exercises you can perform anywhere, anytimea 10-minute cardio workout you can do at home5 exercises that will strengthen your back and reduce painwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if you have kids, youre no stranger to the ritual of jamming through a crowded department or office supply store, foraging for school supplies. yet, according to a survey based on a nationally representative sample of tens of thousands of teachers released this year by the national center for education statistics, your kids teacher is still likely shelling out their own cash to score supplemental materials for their class.among teachers who spent any of their own money on classroom supplies without reimbursement, the average (mean) amount spent was $479, and the median amount spent was $297 with as many as 9 percent of teachers shelling out the upwards of $1k of their own money, according the survey.margaret derosa stevens, a second-grade teacher in the hoosick falls central school district in upstate new york, says she probably spends about $500-$1000 out-of-pocket each year on activities and supplies for her classroom. honestly, our school district and parents are good with funding at the beginning of the year, but we usually start to run low on pencils, glue sticks and crayons around thanksgiving, she says, texting us a picture of her already robust snack stash drawer. sometimes i ask parents to help, but if its an activity im choosing i dont want to burden them. i probably spend the most money on daily snacks. its so difficult to watch one child take out a juice box, string cheese, fruit and a cookie, while other children have nothing.i probably spend the most money on daily snacks. its so difficult to watch one child take out a juice box, string cheese, fruit and a cookie, while other children have nothing.school budgets are notoriously tightwhy do teachers spend so much of their own money on supplies? school budgets  including school lunch  vary wildly from city-to-city. for example, new york city traditionally bases their budgets on factors like grades earned by students, and the demographic of each school population  the amount of kids requiring free or reduced lunch can boost the funding a school receives.according to the american association of school administrators, school funding is used to pay for:teachers salaries and professional developmentprincipal, assistant principal and administrative support staff salariesthe school buildings themselves, including the light and heating billscurriculum and staff developmenttransportation (school buses and drivers)a school nursebreakfast and lunches for studentsa school library and librarianschool counselorsspecial education programsteachers are often paid unevenlyteacher salaries can vary wildly from city-to-city and state-to-state, depending on the cost of living. in very expensive new york city, for this school year, brand new teachers with bachelors degrees and no prior experience range from $57k to $86k, for a masters degree and eight years of teaching experience. maximum salaries reportedly top off at over $100k. mind you, teachers in other states fetch far lower salaries: just over $38k for less than 3 years of experience and a bachelors degree to almost $56k for a masters degree and over 27 years of experience, according to the alabama state department of education website.part of the reason for this huge discrepancy, as a recent nbc news think essay points out, is that property values can play a part in determining teacher pay, often leaving kids in rural and urban environments with underpaid teachers and scant resources. teachers are walking out in protest: this spring, arizona, oklahoma and west virginia teachers took to the streets to protest low pay, huge gaps in pay (as in what we mentioned above) and low school funding.according to teacher turnover: why it matters and what we can do about it, a 2016 report from the learning policy institute, teacher retention might improve if teachers were provided with competitive and equitable compensation across districts, and service scholarship and loan forgiveness programs were instituted to ease education debt burdens. in the meantime, parents and taxpayers can advocate for better teacher pay in their communities by supporting teacher unions and advocacy organizations, and voting for school budget and teacher pay increases whenever possible.what else can we do to help our teachers lighten their load this school year?volunteer and fundraise whenever you canwhen it comes to helping teachers, time is just as valuable as money. go to pta meetings and school events and learn what you can do based on school needs that best fits your schedule, says dana gerendasi, principal of the waterside elementary school in queens, new york. my pta executive board are all working families. volunteers that will help to fund-raise and volunteer their time can really help lessen the load of the board.see your childs teacher as a partnerandrew swapp, who taught middle and high school in milford, ut for 14 years, says it would help teachers if more parents adopted the mindset that school is designed to help them educate their children  not to be the sole source of their education. treat the teacher with the respect you would a doctor, and yes a second opinion is allowed. read everything your child brings home and ask questions about what they learned daily, says swapp. if your child is struggling to connect or learn, swapp recommends meeting with the teacher with a few suggestions of your own in hand. if you have no alternative, your complaint may fall on deaf ears  not because the teacher wants to ignore you but because most teachers rely on recommendations either from other teachers, the state or from a workshop attended in the summer, he explains. after all, you know your child best and can provide teachers with insight on how to reach them.remember that your childs teacher is a human beingabove all, remember that teachers are people too. i always noticed that parents would compare our job to theirs and, based on the hours, think of it as an easier job, recalls adam cole, a veteran atlanta-area public school teacher. there is no downtime. imagine your job was to watch one child for eight hours a day with perhaps a 45-minute break in there, somewhere. now make that 20 or 30 kids who are interacting with one another while youre either presenting or attentive to ensure theyre safe, occupied and learning  and youre held accountable for the results. this level of intensity tends to burn teachers out fairly quickly and while there is no alternative, compassion, understanding and support helps tremendously.and when thanksgiving rolls around, ask your childs teacher if they need more snacks, glue sticks and tissues. chances are theyll be thankful.more back-to-school tipsa better morning routine for kids and parentsback to school lunch gear that makes healthy eating even easierhow and when to get the best back-to-school dealswant compassionate, bully-proof kids? do thiswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

my first baby, june, was born on a thursday afternoon after 18 hours of contractions, one panic attack and two hours of pushing. moments after she was born, but before i could hold her, i remember hearing what i thought was water splashing on the floor  and finding out quickly that the sound was actually blood pouring out of my body. the nurses jumped on me, pumping me with medicine to contract my uterus, while my obstetrician crammed her hand inside me, elbow-deep, to try to detach my placenta and stop the bleeding.the teams quick thinking saved my life. but when i regained consciousness a few hours later, i was deeply shaken, woozy from the drugs and on the verge of needing a blood transfusion. after the nurse had palpated my uterus, i was so sore i could barely sit up. when the nurse placed my baby in my arms, june immediately started to cry, and reflexively i tried to hand her back.shes all yours, mom! the nurse chirped, and suddenly i felt like i was going to pass out again. between the exhaustion of labor, the major hemorrhage and now the existential crisis of becoming a mother, i felt overwhelmed and hungry  not to mention a tad disappointed. hearing stories from other moms during my pregnancy, i had expected to feel completely obsessed with my baby, strangely and wonderfully possessed by love like other moms had assured me i would be as soon as i laid eyes on her. instead, i had barely caught a glimpse of her before flopping back on the delivery table and nearly bleeding to death. now, in my arms, i conceded that she was a very pretty stranger and wondered when the hospital would bring in her real parents so i could eat a cheeseburger and take a nap.mother-child bonding is crucial, but it doesnt look the same for everyonethe science on mother-child bonding is pretty clear: its crucial for raising healthy, well-adjusted kids. parental bonding is linked to everything from the childs brain chemistry to their future adult relationships. (no pressure, right?) but not all bonding feels the same, say the experts, and many moms who dont feel that rush of love end up feeling guilty or ashamed. heidi mcbain, a licensed family therapist based in texas, says a huge part of her clinical practice is working with new parents, many of whom find bonding with their baby difficult.i see a lot in my practice that moms are really upset because they meet their baby and they dont instantly fall in love, she says. thats an expectation thats coming from somewhere  their friends, family or on tv  and theyre really upset when that doesnt happen.for some women, like me, it simply takes a while to get used to a new baby, and come to terms with our new role as mom.people forget that when you see this new baby for the first time, you dont really know each other, mcbain says. a lot of moms meet their baby and they dont know them and they dont feel instantly connected. a lot of the work i end up doing is just letting them know that thats normal. as baby gets older, and mom gets more comfortable with being a mom, hour after hour, they start to bond.another thing that gets in the way of bonding? trauma. one recent study showed that up to four percent of women develop post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd) after giving birth, and any kind of failed expectation, says mcbain, be it a bad breastfeeding experience or a birth trauma, can interfere with bonding and even trigger postpartum depression and anxiety.we tend to have a lot of expectations of what we want our life to be, says mcbain. it could be a mom who wants a natural birth and didnt get one, or a mom who cant breastfeed for whatever reason. when these expectations arent realized, some people are fine, and for others it can be triggering. it can bring up issues from their relationships or from their past.mcbain stresses that the bonding experience is different for everyone and every pregnancy, and there are many variations of what normal can look like. anecdotally, i can tell you thats true. when i asked my friends and fellow moms about the bonding experiences with their children, nearly all of them confessed that it just depended on the circumstance: the pregnancy, how the birth went, the type of support they had, and even the kid itself. some felt a gradual attachment, while others felt a bond when the baby learned to smile or sleep through the night. like most things having to do with motherhood, everyones experience is different, sometimes radically so.baby #2: love at first sightless than two years later, even though i had sworn up and down to my husband in the recovery room with june that i was never going through that again, we welcomed our second child, henry, into the world. at twenty weeks, henry had been diagnosed with a permanent birth defect, and as a result his birth could not have been more different: a planned c-section as opposed to an agonizing vaginal birth. because of his birth defect, henry was whisked away after birth for surgery, and between his surgery and mine, i wouldnt be able to hold him for the next several days. but the rush of love that had eluded me with june hit me like a tidal wave with henry. in the home video we have of his birth, the ob is lifting him over the curtain for us to see his face, and im squealing between tears. how are you so beautiful? i keep shouting. oh my god! wow! i was in love.contrast that with june: although i felt protective of her, it wasnt until we had been discharged for a week that i finally felt something toward her that resembled love. one day, during a nap, my mom brought the baby to me and told me that it looked like she needed to nurse. suddenly, two simultaneous thoughts popped into my head. the first was \"didnt i just feed her?!\" the second was \"yay  i get to see her again!\" as i fed her, i realized i was stroking her skin, smelling her, talking to her softly. hey, i thought. i love her now!in hindsight, i have no idea why the bonding experience with our second was so radically different than the first. it could have been that henrys birth was easy and painless, or it could have been that henrys diagnosis made him more vulnerable and, as such, easier to attach to. or maybe it was that, with my first, i simply needed time and space to adjust to my new role as mom and to this needy, wailing stranger who had just totally upended my life. my experience with bonding was unique with each of them, and ive made my peace with it.for this reason, when a mom tells me shes nervous about having a baby, i make sure to tell her that its totally normal if she feels \"meh\" about the baby at first  truly. we have a culture thats deeply anxious about raising children and extremely prescriptive about how it should be done, causing many moms to panic if they think theyre doing it wrong. i make sure to tell them that neither of my kids had skin-to-skin time with me in the first hour of their lives, nor did they breastfeed immediately after birth, nor could i hold them for several hours  all things that are supposedly crucial to developing that mother-child bond. and while parental bonding is truly important, in the end it didnt matter what i did initially or how i felt toward them: eventually, i ended up completely in love with them, regardless. somehow, love snuck in.more stories on navigating motherhoodhow your brain changes after babywhitney port on the unique struggle of millennial moms3 things moms dont need to worry about when going back to workwhat its like to give up alcohol in a wine mom worldamerica has a motherhood problem  heres how to solve itwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

summer is the most popular time of year to move homes, and this summer could be a post-recession record-breaker.the final numbers arent in, but most of our moving company partners have been reporting that this has been one of the busiest summers for them since the recession, ryan carrigan, co-founder of movebuddha. the strong housing market and strong economy have a lot of people moving. weve seen customer stress levels at all-time highs this summer.but why do we make these massive transitions in summer, when temperatures are soaring?it seems almost crazy that people would want to move during such a hot season, but the reality as to why this is the busiest moving time of year has to do with a number of things: those with families find it easier to make this life transition when everybody is out on summer and easiest to transition school districts before schools commence, says aaron steed, ceo, meathead movers. [additionally,] college kids are also doing a lot of moving around, with families being able to downsize homes.anyone who has moved knows how stressful and costly it can be. heres our expert guide to doing it cheaply, safely and sanely.try to move on a weekdayseptember 1, when many leases will start, falls on a saturday this year. if you can negotiate with your new landlord, try to push the move-in date up (or back if youre able) so that youre moving on a weekday.avoiding the weekends and end of the month can get you a better rate on a moving company or rental truck, notes carrigan.verify your movers credentialscost-saving may be top of mind, but dont go bottom dollar with movers if you arent certain you can trust them.people who shop for the cheapest movers [may] fall for unrealistic low estimates, says manuela irwin, a digital marketing and business development executive at mymovingreviews, a consumer protection site for consumers on the move. they book the mover and then when the company has the household belongings, movers wont release the shipment until the customer pays more. and by more, i mean thousands of dollars more.to avoid scams, irwin recommends that you thoroughly research the moving company (broker, moving labor or pod provider).dont fall for vague and fluffy ads, she adds. as much as you may be in a hurry, dont push for the first solution. be cautious: check with the department of transportation to confirm whether a company is a legitimate business, check physical location, company history, membership in association and community organizations and last but not least, online reviews and the over digital footprint of the company.book movers asap and pick the earliest slotsif youre hiring a moving company, book the earliest morning time slot available, adds carrigan. the moving crew will be fresh so theyll get the job done faster and typically do a better job.and do book your movers asap if you havent already  even if that means just asking friends and family to be free that day.get boxes at liquor stores and go green by renting plastic cratesfree boxes from liquor stores or groceries are a great way to save some cash but make sure you only get sturdy good quality boxes, says carrigan. flimsy boxes wont stack well and increase the chances of damage.in some cases its smarter (and more eco-friendly) to buy or even rent plastic crates.according to uhauls moving supply calculator, even a modestly furnished four-bedroom home can require well over 100 boxes. \"a great eco-friendly alternative to cardboard boxes are plastic bins or crates, says leanne stapf, vp of operations, the cleaning authority. [they] can be reused over and over again post-move, while cardboard boxes normally end up hitting the dumpster or recycle bin immediately. there are a variety of different companies that will rent plastic moving boxes if you prefer not to buy them. ask your moving company if they can provide or search online to see what is available in your area.pro-tip: u-haul has a plastic moving box rental service.put heavy stuff in small boxes, and be mindful about remote controlsone mistake many people make is over-packing larger boxes without thinking how heavy they will actually be and how difficult it can be to move them, notes steed. place heavy items in small boxes and lighter items in large boxes. heavier items should be packed at the bottom of the boxes, with the lighter items sitting at the top.\"here are a few more quick packing tips from lior rachmany, ceo and founder of dumbo moving + storage:lift your boxes to test if you hear anything moving  if you [do], you need to repack because items may break.secure all bottles, especially vinegar and soy sauce, by taping the tops to ensure that they are definitely sealed.its easy to lose your remote controls  be extremely particular about where you pack them.trade the bubble wrap and foam bubbles for blankets and socksbubble wrap and styrofoam can rack up a bill, and also be harmful to the environment. cut down on this mess by using stuff you already have.use dish towels, bath towels, t-shirts and socks to wrap your fragile items, recommends stapf. youll save money on packing supplies and cut down on the overall number of boxes youll have to move.finalize your packing strategy a week ahead of the moving datealways start your packing at least one full week in advance of your move date. estimate the number of boxes you will need, along with the sizes and other material, in advance, says steed. set a packing method in place. as you pack each room, stack the boxes neatly in one corner and be sure to label them by room and content, as detailed as possible.contact the post office and utility providersyouve got a million things to do, yes, but dont forget to secure these rather administrative tasks before you hop in that moving truck.the postal service has to be contacted and appointments made to install cable and internet service, says gary malin, president of citi habitats, new york. utility companies need to be notified of your move.unfortunately, you can no longer deduct moves on your taxesunder the new tax plan, business and personal moving expenses are no longer eligible for deduction, so keep them in mind when mapping out your budget.you can no longer deduct moving expenses as of 2018, says carrigan. the new tax law removed any moving-related deductions. i still see articles being published with [outdated] advice and it drives me nuts.treat your movers well with lunch and tipseven if youre paying a lot for movers, you should honor their hard work with kindness (aka, food and tips).we always buy lunch for the movers, asking for their specific food and drink preference when possible, says jennifer howard of jwh design &amp; cabinetry, who has moved 26 times in 30 years. pizza is an easy choice, but most of them end up preferring something individual when asked. we tip each of the guys at the end of the move. this extra show of appreciation is always welcome, and you never know when you are going to need them again. each time i moved, i would swear, i will not do that again. but its like childbirth; i forgot the labor and agony, and moved again.this is stressful! maintain self-carephysical labor aside, moving can be taxing on an emotional level. be sure to take extra good care of yourself during this upheaval.moving is extremely stressful because it evokes separation anxiety in adults as well as in children, says dr. fran walfish, a family and relationship psychotherapist. recognize that you are undergoing a stressful experience. be sure to get lots of restful sleep, eat well and exercise.more tips for a happy, healthy homehow often to clean (almost) every appliance in your homehow to keep your house cool without running up your utility billthe property brothers home upgrades that will elevate your space for lesswant to lower your utility bills? beware these home design trendshow to spruce up your home for spring ... on a budgetwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

kyle thomas 100 pound weight loss began one summer night in 2016, when he decided to go for a neighborhood stroll with his father.over several weeks, the canadian tour guide developed a steady walking routine that evolved into a running addiction.it wasnt really intentional, thomas tells nbc news better.he started walking by himself when his father couldnt join him, and pushed himself to go a little further each day.it was just like i was doing it, and it was a little bit of a challenge for myself to just keep going a little bit further, thomas says.start smallthomas, 28, says the key to his enormous weight loss was starting small.at first, walking even short distances gave thomas aches and pains in his legs. but gradually they started to subside. slowly  as he got used to exerting himself  he would jog for short spurts.i would kind of say, ok, im going to run from this lamp post to that lamp post to that lamp post, and just see what happens, he says. and i think back now, and its kind of funny because i would be  gasping. i would be panting, and way out of breath, and i would have only gone like 30 or 40 feet.he says he followed this unofficial walk-to-run routine about five days a week. it had a sudden impact on his physique. by august, he noticed his clothes were getting loose.all the sudden my pants were way too big for me around my waist, recalls the runner.the simple routine paid off as his jogging habit snowballed into a full-blown running addiction in just a few months, he says.focus on the challenge rather than an end goalthomas began going for runs early in the morning, he says. over time, he increased in distance  from a half a mile, to a mile, to two miles. by december, he was running about four miles at a time, he recalls.i was pushing myself to run a little bit faster, run a little bit further every day, and so i was doing more and more all the time, he says.thomas never weighed himself, and never had a specific end-goal as to how much he wanted to weigh or what he wanted his body to look like. running had simply become a challenge, he says.focus on portion size and food quality instead of caloriesthe runner says he also changed his eating habits. he didnt pay much attention to the number of calories he ate, he explains. rather, he focused on reducing portion sizes.i might not have eaten horribly, but i ate a lot, he recalls of his old eating habits.instead of counting calories, he ate half the food on his plate. he also started to notice how different kinds of foods affected his body, he adds, and began to adjust his food choices.i would also make lean chicken and vegetables, but i didnt have rice with it or potatoes, all the sudden i would cut out the rice and potatoes because to me they were just filler, he explains.always make time to runas thomas continued to lose the weight  over the winter months, weight loss started to feel kind of like a game, he recalls.it was kind of like hacking  hacking my own body to some extent, he says.thomas says he lost so much weight by the summer of 2017 that he was underweight. at that point, he realized he needed to start eating more normal portions of food, he says.im a little bit easier on myself now that i kind of have a routine of a healthier lifestyle than what i had two years ago, he says.thomas still hasnt weighed himself at home, but based on doctors visits, he estimates he lost around 100 lbs. he no longer has back pain when he wakes up, he observes, and the occasional stomach aches he once suffered have disappeared.i feel great, he says. like i feel good. i definitely have more confidence.thomas runs almost every day in yellowknife, canada where he lives. he doesnt follow a specific routine, and doesnt use any apps to track his progress. his philosophy is simple: listen to your body.if i run a half marathon, its on a random saturday when i dont intend to run a half marathon, thomas says. its just i all of a sudden get out on the road or the trails and accidentally run [13 miles], and that sounds bizarre, but thats kind of how my whole regimen has been since the beginning.what is routine, says thomas, is that he always makes time to run.the world is not going to collapse around me if i prioritize an hour of running over something else, he says.how to make running a habit:start with a simple walk-to-run routine: take small steps and dont push yourself too hard. a simple walk-to-run routine will help you get used to jogging while building stamina.focus on the challenge rather than an end goal: instead of focusing on your weight or how you want to look, focus on the challenge of being able to run longer and longer distances.pay attention to portion size and food quality: rather than obsessing over calories, eat nutritious food. if you are trying to lose weight, reduce your portion sizes instead of counting calories. always make time to walk or run: dont be afraid to make exercise a priority.more weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

on paper, combining alcohol and axe throwing sounds like a bad idea. but in a controlled environment with an axe-throwing coach looking over your shoulder, its actually an incredibly fun  and safe  way to spend an evening. welcome to the latest craze.axe throwing as a sport isnt new, and in fact might be one of the oldest in existence. what is new, however, is throwing axes in an urban environment, especially in the united states, where its just getting off the ground. in canada and a few other spots in the world, urban axe throwing is booming and according to the national axe federation (natf), participants have thrown nearly 20 million axes to date.the beauty of the new urban axe throwing facilities popping up around the country is that they are accessible, social and as low-key or ramped up as you want them to be. think of them as an updated  and far hipper  version of the 1970s bowling alley.much of the credit for bringing axe throwing to the united states goes to 35-year old krista paton of philadelphia. working in toronto in 2013, she attended a party at a local axe throwing facility. i had an amazing time, felt like i was good enough to compete, and thought that people in the united states needed to experience this, she says.she returned to her hometown of philadelphia, brought three friends on board, and launched urban axes, a combination bar and axe-throwing facility that now has three locations with more opening soon. the chain is among several, along with independent spaces, popping up in many major metropolitans.how axe-throwing worksa typical space looks like an old warehouse  and often is one  with high ceilings, heavy-duty walls and chain-link fencing surrounding targets on the sides and top. upon the jacked-up wall is a wooden target with three varying sized and colored, concentric circles. throwers take aim at the target and earn points depending on where their axes land. hitting the bulls eye will get you five points, the circle surrounding it three, and within the outer circle one.then theres clutch. each target has a set of two green dots above the circles. throwers must claim they are aiming for clutch before trying it, and you can only go for it on the last of five throws in each of three rounds. land the blade in between the dots and you earn seven points.a perfect score is 81 and its a lofty goal. when you first get competitive, your goal is to reach 25, says paton. then you start slowly working your way up to higher and higher scores and bigger goals.the axes that throwers use must comply with natf standards. the size, weight and length are all regulated, explains paton. people who play regularly often have their own set of axes, but they still must comply.giving axe-throwing a goyou can try your hand at axe throwing by walking in to public sessions, through group or corporate events or by joining a league, which is where the more competitive throwers often end up. leagues are set up in an eight-week format, says paton. there are 30 people in each league and the first seven weeks operate in round robin format. the final week is playoffs.the number of leagues will vary by facility and in general, people join on their own or with a few friends. the beauty of axe throwing is that, while you are competing against others, youre mostly aiming to best your own former scores. if you are coming into a facility as a walk up or with a group event, coaches man each target area to teach and oversee safety.alison boober first tried throwing after taking a job at the philadelphia urban axes. i loved it and immediately went home and built a target to practice, she says. i spent a year on the job before i joined a league.today, she can claim the title of first female in the united states to have thrown a perfect 81, and only the third in the entire world to have done so. at a recent baltimore-based international tournament, the 30-year old boober was the last woman standing, finishing 25th of 128. next year im aiming for the national axe throwing championship in canada, she says. i also want to win a league.this isnt a sport where you need to bring in years of ball or other sport experience either, so its great for anyone looking for a fun activity.boober and paton both say that women and men can compete on the same playing field because axe throwing is far more about skill than strength. we claim that women start off better than men because they pay more attention to their stance and technique, says paton. this isnt a sport where you need to bring in years of ball or other sport experience either, so its great for anyone looking for a fun activity.when you want to get more serious, like boober, however, it does pay to figure out the right axe and technique, as well as put in some hours of practice. i belong to multiple leagues so that i can get in lots of throws, plus i do some extra throwing after shifts, she says.while alcohol is part of the culture of axe throwing in both walk-up and league play, those who take the sport seriously need to think about whether it helps or hinders their game. theres a big mental component to throwing, says boober. you have to try not to let it get into your head too much.one thing is a given  once youve thrown an axe, youll want to do it again. it feels like playing when youre a kid, says paton. its new and different and anyone can join the fun.next: embracing pntsdrunk, the finnish way of drinking alone in your underwearwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

so youre bringing home a bundle of joy  a four legged, barking, furry bundle that is  and your employer offers the fabulous perk of pawternity leave  wait, what? yes, a few pet-friendly companies looking to take it to the next level are going beyond bring your dog to work day.on a mission to to stand out in a competitive marketplace as they recruit top employees, companies like new york city-based mparticle are offering paid leave for employees bringing home a new pet. yes, theres still an awful lot of room for improvement in paid parental leave for actual children in this country  but before you discount this notion, consider that the most common reason people relinquish their dogs to shelters is for pet problems, including problematic behaviors. how many of these could stay with their new families if they got off on the right foot, err, paw?that first week with a new dog is so important, in fact, that louisville, kentucky, based dog trainer tyler ohlmann of rosie dane dog training recommends that his clients take the week off to focus on training it. ohlmann has trained some 2,000 dogs, including my own cassius thunderpaws  and we started the day after cash came home.while the first week at home is a great time to bond with your pet, theres no more more critical time to set the groundwork for a companionship that will make you both happy for years to come. and that starts with helping the new pup learn good behavior. we had the good fortune to use his advice when cash was just eight weeks old and nine pounds  and you can believe we appreciate his wisdom now that cash is 90 pounds.whether youre the lucky dog who gets pawternity leave, are working from home or taking a vacation, ohlmann has tips for how to spend that first week at home with your new pup. and theres a tie for the top two; the most important thing in those first couple weeks is house training and crate training and neither go easily if you just throw the dog in the crate and leave for work for eight hours, he said.start with house trainingwhen dogs have housetraining issues, most likely thats the situation they found themselves in, he said. the owner brings home this dog, then they close the door and bye! and they come home and there are accidents and it spirals out of control quickly.a puppy can only hold their bladder for their age in months plus one in hours, he explained. so for an eight week old puppy, theyre going to have to go to bathroom every three hours and that doesnt include after they eat, drink, play and wake up, he said. if youre gone to work youre missing all these opportunities to show them where to go to bathroom.  [but] if you do it right you can have the dog house trained in a week.hows that? take the dog out on a leash using the same door each time to the designated spot; dont let them frolic or play; use your word, like hurry up, or do your business while theyre going; and tell them how great they are, he explained. if they dont go within a couple minutes, bring them back in, put them in the crate where they wont want to soil, and try again in 15 minutes.get a crate (even if you dont want to)not everybody wants to use a crate, ohlmann said. people often to their detriment take the approach they want the dog to live a life of a freedom and that is a terrible idea, just as terrible as letting your baby crawl around the back yard.heres the thing. the crate is their room. it serves as a babysitter, he said. you let a puppy run around willy-nilly and bad behaviors become bad habits, he said.weve all seen the social media posts of friends with new puppies (or grown dogs, for that matter) that eat slippers (or furniture!), turn mail into confetti and generally wreak havoc. the puppy is destined to go chew on something, ohlmann said. if theyre in their crate (with an approved toy) that something wont be your shoe.pawternity leave comes in handy here because introducing them to a crate is always better as a gradual process, he said. his recommendation? start with 30 seconds in the crate, going back a little later for five minutes, then 15 and 30 so its not baptism by fire.as we know from all those pictures of shoes-turned-chew-toys, an unsupervised dog is going to practice bad habits, ohlmann said. unfortunately its not always just funny facebook photos. nine times out of 10, he said, those bad behaviors are why a dog ends up at a shelter.let sleeping dogs lie? nope.that first week is prime time to help the dog learn what works to get your attention. is it going to be barking and acting out, or is it going to be calm, chill behavior? every time our big boy sits or lies down  as opposed to jumping and barking  when he wants something i mentally thank his trainer for teaching us this concept.what we need to understand about animal behavior, ohlmann said, is dogs do what works. they only do something if it gets them what they want. action leads to memory leads to the desire to either repeat the original action or refrain from it. that model plays out with puppies every waking moment. they look at something and think, what happens if i bark, what happens if i paw, what happens if i jump, what happens if i wag, what happens if i stare at this thing?if they get what they want, he said, theyre going to repeat that in the future. most bossy behavior is learned when puppies bark and people turn to say what do you want? the puppy learns if i want attention i bark, and you end up with annoying, obnoxious dogs.whats more, when a dog is being quiet  and good  his people often tiptoe around so as to not disturb him, ohlmann said. what happens is youre encouraging bad behavior and discouraging good because the dog wakes up and says, that didnt get me jack, so it starts barking and running around and getting underfoot.it boils down to this, he said. you simply wait till the dog is displaying behavior you want then you give them what they want. lying down quietly? pet and praise them. barking annoyingly? (unless its to go outside to do their business), ignore them, he said. wait them out. all dogs change strategies when the first ones not working for them. and remember. our attention is the number one resource for dogs. most of us give it up way too freely.bring on the puppy partyif youve brought home a young dog, now is your chance to get them used to all the types of people, sights, sounds, and smells they may encounter in their lives. the real puppy imprinting takes place before 14 to 16 weeks, with females maturing faster than males, ohlmann said. if they havent seen it or experienced it by then it is like an alien to them.so pups need lots of socialization at this age. they should meet 100 different people in their first month, ohlmann said. more often than not if a puppy is afraid of people its men, and many dogs who end up kid averse never saw kids, so half those people should be men and 25 should be children. throw puppy parties, during pawternity leave, he said. invite friends over to meet the new puppy. (i would add now is a good time to train your friends to not reward your dog for bad behavior). turn up the sound now too, ohlmann said. he uses a desensitizing soundtrack with his boarding and training clients to expose them to fireworks, slamming doors, kids laughing, sirens and all the sounds that can cause issues for dogs not exposed to them early.get them used to the vaccuum cleaner (or roomba!) now, and the dremel for nail trims, he went on. and take them out in public to dog-friendly places like hardware stores. do avoid dog parks and other places where a young dog awaiting vaccinations could be exposed to harmful viruses and bacteria, though, ohlmann cautioned. and let them play in a kiddie pool full of water so you dont end up with a dog thats a scaredy-cat when it comes to water.dial back the cuddle timeohlmann had one last tip that may not be popular. youve got this time, dont waste it cuddling, he said. you will be cuddling the rest of their life. youll have every evening going forward to snuggle on the couch. for now treat it as a project and investment. its going to pay off a lot more than having a snuggle buddy when you can have a dog thats reliable and responsible and even tempered.ok, i still cuddled plenty with cash that first week so i dont have room to talk. but dedicating time when he was so young to house and crate training, socialization, and teaching him how to get what he wants nicely has made life happier and easier for all of us.more on petswhat your dogs behavior says about youforget what youve heard. being a cat lady is healthy.how dogs teach us to stop worrying and just be happywhy dogs are good for our health and help us cope with lifewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

not all of us are morning people, but life with kids doesnt much care for the preferences of our sleep cycles, so, like it or not, when children are in the picture and back-to-school is in the air, weve all got to get with the am program.setting a clear, stable morning routine can help the whole family get on board and stay on track. plus, as dr. fran walfish, a family and relationship psychotherapist and the author of the self-aware parent: resolving conflict and building a better bond with your child notes, its good for your kids.having a clear structure in place gives your child a sense of trust, safety and security she says. [they] know what to expect and can easily move through responsibilities.heres how to nail your kids morning routine so that everyone can have a good day.make sure your child has a good sleep routine (weekends included)before we can conquer the morning, we have to get through the night  with a good amount of sleep. dr. jerry bubrick, senior clinical psychologist at the child mind institute recommends that kids get eight solid hours of zs. if a child is sleep-deprived, everything is harder. we want sleep to be a rhythmic process, [with] no catching up on sleep on the weekends.set alarms for the same time every morning no matter what the exit time out of the house is, says bubrick.stock up on organizational materials for the homeit is beneficial to take the time to look at the organization of the homes entrance, says marina v. umali, an interior designer. keeping everything organized will ensure a smooth morning routine and will save precious time getting ready. purchasing bins, containers and hooks that can be assigned for each adult and/or child is the best way to keep everything organized and in one place.prep the night before for a no-rush morningmornings can be hectic, but you can change that by allowing yourself enough time to get everything done. get a head start the night before.mornings can really set the tone for your entire day, so i strive to eliminate that frantic, rushing out the door feeling that is all too familiar for most families, says dr. kat cohen, ceo and founder of educational consulting firm ivywise and the mother of two young children. i always encourage students to pack their bags and pick out their outfits the night before, [which] gives students more time to review what they need for the following day.limit lunch options, but give a choiceif possible, you should also prep lunch meals and snacks the night before, and let kids in on the decision making process  to an extent.go over at night what are the plans for the next days lunch if the parent packs it, says ben bernstein, phd, a performance psychologist and the author of several books including crush your test anxiety: how to be calm, confident, and focused on any test. give the child two options if you can, it will make kids feel like they are part of the decision making process.talk with kids about whats on their minds for the next daybernstein highlights the importance of talking with your kids before they go to bed to make for a stress-free morning. he recommends parents ask the following of kids:what are you looking forward to?what, if any, concerns do you have?by talking through any tough (or exciting) topics before bed, you stand to have a smoother morning with no stress on your kids part.get in a positive mindset before you wake the kidsit can be challenging to be peppy and bright first thing in the morning, but centering yourself in a positive mindset can work wonders for you and your kids.parents always have the power to turn any mood-ship around, from happy to unhappy and from unhappy to happy, says jacqueline pirtle, a mindfulness and happiness coach and the author of 365 days of happiness: because happiness is a piece of cake!, who recommends meditating into a happy, feel-good place before the parent duties start and before you wake up the kids.get yourself ready firstin our minds as parents, it seems logical that we can get ready while [our kids] do, but logic doesnt always work with parenting, says dr.bubrick. wake up a bit earlier, shower and get yourself ready before waking up the kids.frustrated? yelling will only backfiremodel patience and calmness, adds dr. bubrick. if you are yelling, youve already lost the battle. the calmer you are, the more responsive your child will be. we cant expect our kids to be efficient and happy if were screaming at them, and theyll learn its ok to yell when frustrated.additionally, its easy to snap at a cranky child who refuses to put their shoes on, but rather than getting angry at bad behavior, focus on rewarding good behavior.good job putting your shoes on is far more helpful than cmon already and put your shoes on, says bubrick.no tv, videogames or ipads first thingwhen kids get out of bed, they may want to rush to activities more joyous than brushing their teeth, but to get the day to a productive start, you should pull the plug on tv and/or videogames in the morning.playing games and watching tv should not be allowed in the mornings prior to your child completing all of his responsibilities first, says dr. walfish. you can, however, use games and tv as a motivator for quickly getting washed, dressed, brushing teeth, eating breakfast and preparing your backpack, [as in] the faster you get ready for school, the more time you get to watch tv.have the kids make their own bedskarin sun, mother of two and founder of crane &amp; canopy, an online provider of luxury bedding and bath products, finds that having your kids make their beds in the morning instills good habits early on.making the bed creates a domino effect, triggering other healthy habits throughout the day and also establishes a feeling of accomplishment first thing in the morning, since its tough to tackle the big things without getting the little things done first, says sun.have a protein-rich breakfasttheres truth to the saying that breakfast is the most important meal of the day, and this is especially so for your kids.lunch at school varies from 10:30am to 1pm, so we want their brains and bodies nourished for maximum performance, says dr. bubrick. protein-rich foods like eggs and cheese, or even health protein bars are better than empty calories or nothing.be flexible, even when it means breaking the routinewhile theres no arguing the significance of a healthy breakfast, sometimes your child just wont be in the mood. dont fight it. same goes for if they dont want to pick out clothes the night before.be flexible. while routines are important, parents who are inflexible with a routine can cause more stress and anxiety. i see a lot is children who may not be hungry in the morning, notes dr. laura f. dabney, md, a psychiatrist. instead of trying to force-feed a child (impossible, by the way) just have the child sit with family for breakfast. or if they dont want to pick their clothes out the night before as dictated by the routine then have them pick another time to do it. if your kids feel like they are part of making the routine they are more likely to follow it.more back-to-school tipsback to school lunch gear that makes healthy eating even easierhow and when to get the best back-to-school dealswant compassionate, bully-proof kids? do thiswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as lazy summer days wind down and back-to-school season hits, it seems like our schedules are instantly jam-packed. between work deadlines ramping up, getting your kids back in a routine, and shorter days, it can often feel like theres barely time to eat dinner let alone prepare it.but you dont have to resort to takeout or delivery when a hectic workday leaves zero time to cook. nutritionists know the tricks to getting a healthy and tasty dinner on the table stat. use these shortcuts and go-to recipes that the pros turn to on busy weeknights  these 11 dinners can all be on the table in 15 minutes or less!beans and rice bowlstock your freezer with frozen veggies and your pantry with microwaveable brown rice, canned beans and canned sliced black olives  and you can have a quickie meal in ten minutes or less. the okra, chickpea and tomato rice bowl utilizes foods youre likely to have on hand that will come together for one of the fastest dinners ever! plus, the bowl is a good source of protein and an excellent source of fiber for maximum staying power. it contains a few fresh ingredients like grape tomatoes and crumbled feta, but feel free to swap in whatever veggies and cheese you have on hand.vegetarian tacosafter a long day at school, little hands love finger food like tacos  and this meal can be on the table in a flash. my go-to meal when i am strapped for time are these vegetarian hummus tacos, says emily kyle, ms, rdn, a nutritionist in rochester, new york. the five-minute meal features whole-wheat tortillas, black beans, avocado, greek yogurt and plenty of veggies. i add any topping or extra vegetable i have on hand, which helps to cut back on food waste and save money, she says.turkey burgerseven without a grill, a turkey burger can get on the table, stat. my red chili and cheese stuffed turkey burgers are a family staple, especially during busy times like back-to-school season, says patricia bannan, ms, rd, a dietitian in los angeles and author of eat right when time is tight. super easy, these burgers only take about five minutes to prep and ten minutes to cook. plus, the surprise chili-and-cheese filling in the middle of the burger is delicious. the dinner will keep you full all night, with 33 grams of protein and 6 grams of fiber per burger. serve on a whole-wheat bun and add your favorite toppings like arugula, salsa and avocado slices for added taste and nutrition, suggests bannan.lentil saladdont feel bad about taking shortcuts  like purchasing pre-cooked steamed lentils  on a busy weeknight. my super fast go-to dinner involves a few healthy timesavers, says cynthia sass, mph, rd, a dietitian in new york city and author of \"slim down now.\" heres how she makes it: sass whisks together a tablespoon of balsamic vinegar, a teaspoon of stone ground mustard, a half teaspoon of italian seasoning and dashes of sea salt and black pepper. then she tosses a half cup of pre-cooked chilled lentils with the dressing, spoons it over a bed of ready-to-eat greens, and tops it with half an avocado and a handful of sliced strawberries. this combo is filling, satiating, nutrient rich and energizing  and its ready in mere minutes, she says.egg sandwichbreakfast for dinner? yes, please! when it comes to quick-cooking protein, you cant get much faster than eggs. give your typical egg sandwich an upgrade with this quickie italian flatbread panini. scramble the eggs in one pan, then add them as a filling to a flatbread sandwich with tomatoes, basil and mozzarella  giving the sandwich a quickie grill on a stove top cast-iron grill. whats more, this meal is loaded with 29 grams of filling protein.shrimp pestoas a single working parent, dinner in 15 minutes is quite common in my house! says samantha cassetty, ms, rd, a dietitian in new york city. one meal thats on heavy rotation these days is shrimp pesto. frozen, uncooked shrimp doesnt require an overnight defrost, making it an ideal protein choice for those of us who might forget to do such things. heres how to make it: just stick the shrimp in a colander in the sink under cold, running water to let it defrost. meanwhile, boil water and prepare a bean-based pasta, according to package instructions. as the pasta is coming to a finish, toss in frozen broccoli. drain; then cook the defrosted shrimp on a skillet coated with olive oil. theyll cook in just a few minutes on each side. finally, combine the shrimp with the broccoli-and-pasta mixture, then toss with store-bought pesto. i serve this with a spinach salad, topped with pine nuts instead of croutons, cassetty says. this brings healthy fats, plus added crunch and flavor to our greens. and the pesto doubles as salad dressing!chickpeas with veggieswhats faster than rinsing and draining a can of beans? almost nothing! i always have cooked chickpeas in the freezer or a can of chickpeas in the pantry, says marisa moore, mba, rdn, a dietitian in atlanta. i use chickpeas in many ways, from tossing them into pesto or marinara sauce for a meatless pasta dish to blending them into hummus to enjoy as a light dinner with vegetable sticks and warm pita bread. but her all-time go-to recipe is smoky chickpeas with spinach. this one pan, simple saut combines chickpeas and spinach with smoked paprika and garlic for a flavorful and filling dish thats perfect as is, stuffed into a pita, or served over your favorite grain, she says. with it, i get a protein and fiber fix in ten minutes flat!turkey meatballsheres a meal-prep secret many dietitians use: they utilize frozen ingredients. i am often on the go, so we do loads of quick and easy dinners in my household, says edwina clark, ms, rd, head of nutrition content at raisedreal in san francisco. most weekends, i make a batch of turkey meatballs without the sauce, and freeze them in individual servings so i can whip them out during the week for a quick pasta or zoodle meal with store-bought marinara sauce. clark notes that baby spinach is a staple in her fridge, and she adds that to the dish for extra veggies.baked or broiled salmonyou might think that cooking salmon seems ambitious for a weeknight  but it really doesnt take long to bake or broil fish. when things are busy and i want a quick and easy nutritious meal, i usually default to a serving of broiled salmon, couscous and steamed broccoli, says keri gans, rdn, a nutritionist and yoga teacher in new york city and author of \"the small change diet\". all i do is brush the salmon with olive oil and sprinkle on paprika, coriander and black pepper. then i place the salmon in the broiler on aluminum foil and cook for around eight to ten minutes. meanwhile, the couscous is cooking on the stove top and the broccoli is steaming in the microwave. then i simply plate with a wedge of lemon. lyssie lakatos, rdn, cft and tammy lakatos, rdn, cft, dietitians in new york city and co-authors of \"the nutrition twins veggie cure\", have a similar go-to meal with their salmon with pineapple salsa. instead of couscous, theyll prepare microwaveable brown rice. this quick dinner is a delicious way to get omega-3 fatty acids and 27 grams of satisfying protein in a wholesome meal! they say.peanut noodlesheres a fact: vegetarian proteins like edamame and peanuts cook more quickly than meat. whenever im short on time, i make 15-minute peanut noodles for dinner, says stephanie mckercher, rd, a healthy recipe blogger in denver, colorado. i use frozen edamame instead of beef or chicken, so theres no need to worry about cooking meat with this recipe. this is my favorite thing to eat when i dont have lots of fresh ingredients in my kitchen!black bean quesadillasyup, a quickie quesadilla can be loaded with protein and veggies. quesadillas can take as little as ten minutes to put together, says rebecca clyde, ms, rdn, a dietitian in salt lake city, utah. i love how versatile they are. i pack my black bean and vegetable quesadillas with beans or leftover meat with cheese and whatever veggies i have in my fridge. theyre a great way to reduce food waste by throwing greens or other veggies that are about to go bad into the tortilla. serve with fresh or canned salsa and guacamole for a nourishing and satisfying quick dinner.more better-for-you recipes13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonighthealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for you12 better-for-you summer barbecue recipeswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

long before apps, there was the rhythm method.with the rhythm method, a woman tracks her menstrual cycles on a calendar to pinpoint when she is ovulating and most likely to conceive  and so avoids sex on those days. this type of natural family planning is far from foolproof, with as many as 24 in 100 women who practice it as birth control getting pregnant in the first year.over the years a number of apps (kindara, period tracker and ovia, among dozens of others) have popped up to help women better understand their fertility cycles. these apps simplify data-logging, help women learn their cycles and typically factor in other information like body temperature or the consistency of cervical fluid, both of which can indicate ovulation or the time youre most likely to become pregnant.most of the apps are promoted as pregnancy planning tools and thats how many women use them. ob-gyns such as dr. jamil abdur-rahman, clinical instructor at the rosalind franklin university chicago medical school, often recommend the apps for patients trying to get pregnant.none of these types of apps have been approved by the food and drug administration to be marketed as contraception, until now. earlier this month, natural cycles was cleared by the fda as a method of contraception. the app, which primarily markets to women seeking a natural form of birth control, contains an algorithm that calculates the days of the month a woman is likely to be fertile based on daily basal body temperature readings and menstrual cycle data.\"consumers are increasingly using digital health technologies to inform their everyday health decisions, and this new app can provide an effective method of contraception if its used carefully and correctly,\" the fda wrote in its release.certain religious beliefs may preclude patients from using birth control, and for them, natural cycles may be a good choice of contraception, just as it may be for women who cannot tolerate hormonal treatment or an intrauterine device.the fda approval is based on the efficacy rate of the app when used as a contraceptive measure.\"the clearance was granted based on the evidence provided in prospective clinical studies based on real-world data from 15,570 women, in which natural cycles was shown to be 93 percent effective with typical use, natural cycles founder and cto, dr. elina berglund scherwitzl, told nbc news better in an email.ob-gyns were dismayed over the fda ruling, saying that women who want to avoid pregnancy should use any fertility app with extreme caution. a 93 percent efficacy is low in comparison with other birth control options like the birth control pill (98 percent effective) and iuds (more than 99 percent). but thats not the main concern that ob-gyns have.consider that this 93 percent number comes from a controlled study where participants were being extremely diligent. what happens in the real world?, says dr. g thomas ruiz, an ob-gyn at memorial care medical group.dr. nicole swiner, a family medicine doctor, stresses that smartphones arent perfect, people dont always plug in the right date or data for things, and this is not the best way to prevent pregnancy.natural cycles requires data and diligencenatural cycles, which costs $79.99 a year and includes a basal body thermometer, requires daily input to inform women about when its safe to have sex, or avoid sexual activity to prevent pregnancy. natural cycles berglund scherwitzl says the app contains an \"algorithm that can accurately determine a womans daily fertility based on changes in her basal body temperature  which increases after ovulation.the proprietary algorithm is designed to account for a variety of factors including \"sperm survival, variation in cycle length, temperature fluctuations and the length of the follicular and luteal phase,\" according to the company. based on that information, the app will display a \"red day,\" alerting you to avoid sex, or a \"green day\" indicating that its safe to have to intercourse.fertility cycles can be hard to predictsince natural cycles algorithm is proprietary, its unclear exactly how it learns a womans fertility cycle, which can be extremely unpredictable. this is why even the most diligent rhythm method users have gotten pregnant, and why this app isnt a contraception method that many ob-gyns would jump to recommend, especially for young women and teens.while some women have cycles that range the average 28 days, many have more erratic cycles. even women who have a history of predictable cycles could be thrown off by a list of factors, says swiner.sleep, stress or recently coming off of [hormonal birth control] can create irregular periods, dr. swiner says. dr. abdur-rahman adds that even aggressive exercise can throw off your cycle.this app isnt for everyone, but it shouldnt be dismissedthe ob-gyns i consulted said that despite their reservations about the fda-approved contraceptive app, they do not dismiss natural cycles, so long as patients understand the risk of unwanted pregnancy.kristi l., a 32-year-old woman who works in politics and asks to not disclose her last name, has been using the app natural cycles as contraceptive for months after a series of negative experiences with hormonal birth control  with the guidance of her doctor.i found [natural cycles] out of necessity, she says. birth control pills were making me feel like total garbage  both emotionally and physically. i wanted a metal iud to avoid hormones, but because i am allergic to nickel, there was a high chance that i would have a bad reaction to the copper iud as there can be trace amounts of other metals in it.\"if you want to use a natural form of contraception, consider this adviceif youre thinking of switching from from the pill or an iud to a fertility awareness app like natural cycles, consult your doctor first. the ob-gyns i spoke to shared these important tips.be diligent. these apps may cost you, but that doesnt mean they do the work for you. log all your data as instructed.take your temperature first thing. you must take your basal body temperature at the same time every morning, as soon as you wake up, with no exceptions. dont eat or drink anything first. even the slightest thing (like going to pee first), can affect your basal body temperature and then all bets are off, says dr. ruiz.dont trust it if youre sick. if you have a cold or any infection, or are on antibiotics, your basal body temperature will likely be affected. you have to be perfectly healthy, adds ruiz.dont use this on birth control. birth control throws off your basal body temperature so this wont serve much purpose if youre taking the pill.give your body time to adjust. wait for three menstrual cycles before having unprotected sex.dont use this with multiple partners. this method doesnt offer any kind of physical barrier, so it doesnt protect against sexually transmitted diseases. if youre not in a committed relationship, or even if youre unsure how you would deal with an unplanned pregnancy, use condoms, too.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

back pain is an epidemic: according to the american association of neurological surgeons, as many as 80 percent of americans will experience some form of low back pain in their lives, and, in a large survey, more than a quarter of adults reported having lower back pain in the past three months.if youve suffered a back injury, you know it can be terrifying to resume any kind of exercise routine. i think theres a lot of hesitation because of the pain and worry of re-injuring the spine, says joseph herrera, do, system chair of rehabilitation medicine at the mount sinai health system. once you have had an episode of back pain, youre four times more likely to have a re-occurrence.bed rest is the worst thing you can do for back pain. resuming activity helps to release endorphins (feel-good hormones) that minimize pain, boost your mood and speed your recovery.when you have issues with your back, your body has two lines of defense.the first is muscle spasm, or pain to prevent further movement. the pain tells you to stop. the second is psychological, where you dont want this to happen again so you move as little as possible, says jeff halevy, a health and fitness expert from new york city who runs halevy life, an integrated health and wellness gym.yet, herrera says the worst thing you can do is lie in bed until the pain completely subsides. bed rest is the worst thing you can do for back pain. resuming activity helps to release endorphins (feel-good hormones) that minimize pain, boost your mood and speed your recovery, he says.while working through back pain recovery, many physical therapists will recommend working on your core, but halevy says its how you work the core thats just as important. there are more core muscles than just your six pack, he says. the problem becomes if you work this area in isolation, theres zero transfer to what you do when you really start to stand up and move.a phased approachhalevy recommends those who are cleared to exercise but are nervous about it transition through phases of exercise positions that support the spine. bo babenko, dpt, a physical therapist at halevy life, explains:phase 1: exercises that begin flat on your back or lying on your stomach. if im going to exercise, this is the most supportive of the spine.phase 2: exercises that begin quadruped, tabletop or on hands and knees. the spine is still very supported here but the supporting structures are working much more to help support the back, says babenko.phase 3: exercises that begin on your knees, or half-kneeling. we begin to introduce gravity bearing down onto the spine, babenko explains.phase 4: exercises you can do standing up. standing will be the full return to normal daily activities as we get closer to discharging someone from a rehab program, says babenko.babenko also shared these four exercises, one for each stage.stage 1: crocodile breathinglie flat on your stomach and breathe deeply, filling your belly with air and releasing it (not breathing through your chest). this relaxes the spine and gives a 360-degree expansion of the ribs and belly.stage 2: banded kickbacksusing a band, create a long loop, holding the ends in one hand. once on all fours, insert one foot into the loop. maintaining a table top posture, kick your leg straight back to the wall behind you five times, working your glute muscles. switch legs for five more reps.stage 3: the pallof pressthis exercise helps your spine with anti-rotation and teaches the muscles to stay stable and continue to build safety into movement patterns.secure an exercise band around a pole aligned in height with your midsection, creating a loop. grab the loop and stand so the pole is behind you. align your feet with your hips. keeping your posture straight, slowly extend the band in front of you, pressing from your belly button straight out in front of you without letting the band change your direction. bring your arms back and repeat 10 times.stage 4: the kettlebellthough the common fear around back injuries is that you shouldnt lift any weights, we need to be prepared to hold weighty objects in life, whether it be from backpacks or groceries.beginning with a light weight, hold a kettlebell up against one shoulder and raise one leg up towards your hips for 30 seconds. slowly lower that leg and raise the other.protect and listen to your bodybobenko recommends check with your doctor before beginning these exercises to be sure youre ready. and, whatever you do, dont exercise with a back brace. though herrera says using a brace (if you need to) at work can be good because they reminder to improve your posture and your lifting mechanics, prolonged use of a back brace can weaken the paraspinal muscles (muscles that support the spine).though trepidation about exercise is completely understandable for people with back problems, you can move  just carefully. listen to your body. this isnt a no pain, no gain scenario, herrera says. if you do have pain while exercising, thats your body saying youre not ready or the injury is still present.get more workout motivationgadgets that will take your fitness routine to the next levelwhat is the most effective cardio machine in the gym?why exercising with a crowd supercharges your workoutthe health benefits of losing just 5 percent of your body weightwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when it comes to budgeting, i am far more lax than most other personal finance writers. i save a set percentage of my income each month (or pay myself first, as they say), and i do whatever i want with the rest. i also put nearly all of my spending on one credit card  that way, i can track all of it in one place, and im also making the most of my credit card points program.but i couldnt always rely on this system. overusing credit cards got me into some trouble in the past  i didnt know yet how to treat my card like actual money, and at one point, i ended up with about $3,000 in credit card debt. swiping my card didnt make me feel anything, and that non-feeling led to spending too much. and, of course, not feeling the sting of payment in the short term meant really feeling it when i finally looked at my credit card bill.to get myself back on track, i finally did what id been told would work so many times, but always made excuses to not do: stick to cash. instead of relying solely on my debit and credit cards to make purchases, i started actually visiting an atm. id withdraw a set amount of cash that would be my spending allotment for a certain amount of time  for example, id take out $50, and that was all i would be allowed to spend that weekend. and guess what? it worked. i controlled my spending enough to be able to pay off my outstanding debt via a balance transfer card, and i never got myself in that kind of situation again.the pain of paying in cashim hardly the first person to realize that using cash puts your spending in perspective in a tangible way. but what is it about using cash that makes it so universally effective?in behavioral economics, its an idea called pain of paying  because human beings are loss averse, spending money is painful. but if youre paying with a credit card, that pain isnt felt right away  its delayed to a later date. with cash, however, the pain of parting with ones money is felt immediately.cash users were 82 percent better at recalling aspects related to an items cost than credit card users.different people will experience different levels of pain when paying in cash, of course. but because dealing with cash has a greater physical component than spending with a credit card, its easier to recall what we spend. a 2018 study from valuepenguin surveying business students about their spending found that cash users were 82 percent better at recalling aspects related to an items cost than credit card users.plus, sticking to cash is a painful practice in more ways than one. beyond being more difficult to spend due to our emotional attachment to holding onto our money, cash is simply inconvenient for most. if you dont work in an industry that deals with cash, regularly making withdrawals for your spending money will likely mean going out of your way to get to an atm. but id argue that inconvenience is more beneficial than not. after all, it adds yet another layer of tangible sacrifice onto spending money: if you have to put in this much effort to acquire it, you may be less likely to squander it.using the cash envelope systemlearning to follow a cash-only diet when youre used to subsisting on credit can be tough  but its not impossible. jessica forrester, a writer from cleveland, ohio, has been a major proponent of using the cash envelope budgeting system for over a year. at the beginning of each month, she withdraws her budget in cash and divides it into different envelopes for different spending categories, e.g. food and gas.ive found it to be very effective at helping me set and stick to a budget, she says. instead of swiping her card and forgetting what she spent minutes later, cash forces her to put all of her spending in perspective. the cash envelope system works better for me because it forces me to be more mindful of my spending. i had gotten into the bad habit of using my debit card like i wasnt spending real money. now, every time i reach into an envelope, im aware of the cash thats going out.of course, even she has slip-ups from time, but she always returns to her cash roots. ill be honest, theres been a few hectic weeks over the last year where ive given myself a break and resorted back to the ease of using my debit card. but after about a week, i always find myself craving the control and organization that comes with using my cash envelopes.if you struggle with sticking to a budget, going cash-only is a great way to impose a hard limit on your spending. id recommend the cash envelope system to anyone who has a messy relationship with their debit (or credit) card, and anyone who likes getting and staying organized, forrester says. it takes a little work  and a little time to figure out what works for you  but, in the end, its totally worth it to have your budget under control.using cash in an increasingly cashless worldnaturally, relying on cash isnt going to remain a viable option in a society that is becoming increasingly cashless. in the restaurant world, for example, credit-only establishments are becoming more and more the norm.but this doesnt have to be a downside: if youre trying to spend less on food out, you might have fewer options available by going cash-only, meaning fewer opportunities to overspend. and, on the other hand, patronizing cash-only businesses might be another simple way to limit your spending  since these establishments dont have to pay merchant fees on credit card transactions, they often have lower prices.going cashless may not be a viable option for you forever, but if youre looking to get your budget on track quickly, its definitely worth a shot. after all, if every dollar you spend has to physically pass through your fingers first, youll have a much better picture of where all your money is going.get more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayshow stashing receipts saved one man over a $1,000 in 7 monthswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram

when it comes to planning for college, probably the first thing we have to seriously think about is money. though some schools, like nyu, which just announced free tuition for medical students, are making powerful strides to make education accessible, the cost of a bachelors degree has catapulted over the years and is continuing to rise.meanwhile, the student debt crisis worsens, topping $1.52 trillion.the cost of tuition may be the biggest punch our bank accounts take as we embark on college, but the fees dont end there. students (and/or their parents) typically also have to pay for lodging, meal plans and school supplies. then theres the another doozy: textbooks, which average $203 per book, according to data from follett; rising over 800 percent in price over the past 40 years.students will skip meals or take fewer classes just to save on textbooksa new survey by cengage, a global education and technology company, shows that all too often students simply cant swing the cost of textbooks, with nearly half of current and former college students (43 percent) saying theyve skipped meals to afford course materials, and 31 percent taking fewer classes to manage the financial burden.that students are skipping meals to afford textbooks strikes me as unconscionable, michael e. hansen, ceo of cengage tells nbc news better. and then you have students saying they wont pursue a major because it is too expensive. were complaining  rightly so  about needing more women in stem, so why put these extra barriers in front of them? it was quite earth shattering from my perspective to see how society is forcing people to make these trade-offs.a digital streaming service for textbooks could solve the problemhowever alarming the findings of the survey, they werent published without a reason and a ready solution. cengage recently launched cengage unlimited, a subscription-based platform, which (much like netflix does for television shows, or spotify does for music) gives students access to a digital library of textbooks (any of the more than 22,000 cengage has published or licensed). it costs $119 per semester or $180 a year. if you prefer a hard copy, you can rent a physical textbook for a semester for $7.99 (the cost of shipping and returning), and you can also keep six e-books for up to a year after your subscription ends. a subscription also gives access to study materials that students can customize as they see fit.the affordability problem of textbooks is obvious and one that has gotten worse over the last 15 years, says hansen. so, we thought, why not offer unlimited access through a digital streaming service, which is how most of us consume our media, anyway? it was a ton of work to make sure that authors had their rights met, and honestly, we were a bit [concerned] about how universities would respond as theyve shown reluctance to change, but weve had an incredibly positive reaction from faculty, and campus bookstores have signs up [advertising] cengage unlimited. now, its just about getting the word out to students.it starts with a dialogue between faculty and studentsstudents dont get to pick the textbooks theyre assigned, so, if a professor chooses a book that isnt available through cengage, they cant access it with their subscription. this is why students should consult faculty before subscribing. professors may be receptive to students needs, especially when the needs revolve around that students desire to succeed.i find that many professors are empathetic and listen to the concerns of students, says timothy j. jaconette, founder, advanced admit college admission consulting.i can think of one professor at berkeley who put an open-source book [on his syllabus] for his statistics class, which was a neat move. it helped students to not even think about cost. so, if students come to professors and say, we use this subscription service, that would motivate professors to jump on the bandwagon. as a whole, this idea of subscribing rather than buying could very well be a step in the right direction, and honestly, i could see many universities build it into their budget.other ways to get textbooks cheaplycengage unlimited does sound to be a promising option, and i wish id had it when i was in college more than a decade ago, when i was in fact, one of those students who dropped a course because one of the many required books cost over $200; but if this isnt an option for you, know that there are other ways to save.heres what lindy schneider, aka americas college advisor recommends:buy used textbooks. search on google for used textbook sources and buy the book secondhand. make sure the edition and isbn number are the same as what the course requires. the course may require a newer edition that has added material.rent textbooks. renting a textbook from any of the many textbook rental companies can save a good chunk of money if the student is diligent about sending it back before the return deadline. the books can be rented for an entire semester. again, the student must make sure the isbn number of the book matches with the textbook that is required. places to rent used textbooks: chegg.com, textbookrentals.com, amazon.com/textbook, knetbooks.com, to name just a few.barter. start a textbook meetup group on-campus. students with textbooks they no longer need and students who need them can help each other out by bartering or buying and selling.sell textbooks online. two college students at notre dame noticed that many students discarded their textbooks when they left for the summer. kreece and xavier began to collect the books and sell them on the internet. six months later they had raised $10,000 by selling donated textbooks. this gave them the idea to start their business better world books to keep old textbooks out of the landfills [and now] have a booming business. they are still purchasing old textbooks and have sold over 75 million.share textbooks. sharing a textbook with another student in the same course can save 50 percent of the cost of the book, but it usually does not turn out well if the students are taking the course during the same semester. both students are apt to want and need the textbook at the same times to study for the same tests; however, if one student takes the course first and the other student schedules the course for the following semester it will be a win-win.more from better6 months to send-off: how to emotionally prepare your child for collegestudent loan debt: what parents and kids need to knowa smarter way to pay for collegewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

using fresh herbs is one of the easiest (and cheapest) ways to take a dish from basic to brilliant. but for the home cook, incorporating fresh herbs can be daunting and probably raises some questions.what do they taste like, when should you add them in the cooking process and what flavors go well together? with this guide to ten common fresh herbs (and a little help from our chef experts), youll no longer walk right past the fresh herb stand at your local farmers market.parsleyalthough parsley looks strikingly similar to cilantro, the taste is much milder. parsley has a fresh taste thats earthy and mildly sweet, according to sara haas, rdn, chicago-based and author of taco! taco! taco!. parsley and cilantro look extremely similar, so make sure you opt for the herb with the pointy leaves. one cup of chopped parsley provides over one thousand percent of your daily value of vitamin k, plus its rich in myricetin, a flavonoid that may have some anti-cancer properties. haas suggests using parsley at the end of cooking for finishing dishes. its great in tabbouleh, roasted potatoes, pasta dishes and grain dishes, and it makes a nice accompaniment to salads and sandwiches, like this spiced chickpea wrap.tarragontarragon has a bright, peppery, yet sweet anise-like taste, says jackie newgent, rdn, culinary nutritionist, author of \"the all-natural diabetes cookbook\" and spokesperson for american pecan council. frankly, i think its one of the most underutilized fresh herbs, she adds. tarragon contains magnesium, iron and zinc, but the amount used in cooking is usually rather negligible. newgent advises adding tarragon at the end of the cooking process or making use of the fresh leaves. one of my favorite recipes to serve at picnics is a tarragon chicken salad with pecans, since tarragon is a perfect pairing for chicken and the pecans provide delicious texture and filling dietary fiber to the creamy salad. for a dinner recipe, try this mushroom and white bean pasta, finished with tarragon.basilarguably the most popular fresh herb (probably because its a pizza topper), basil has a sweet, aromatic and somewhat peppery flavor. like the other fresh herbs, its rich in plant polyphenols that are thought to prevent chronic diseases. not surprisingly, basil pairs well with mediterranean flavors and works best when added at the end of cooking. its also a nice accompaniment to fresh salads, such as this spring strawberry salad.thymeaccording to haas, thyme has a minty, earthy, lemony flavor with a hint of pine. it is believed that the oil of thyme may have antimicrobial properties, and thyme itself is a good source of vitamin c. thyme is great for adding flavor to soups, stocks and stews, roasted veggies, as well as cooking beans from scratch, says haas. its often used at the end of recipes, such as this sauted mushrooms with thyme and bulgur.rosemaryi always get thyme and rosemary confused, probably because the taste is rather similar. rosemary can also be described as lemony with a hint of pine, but it has a more woody taste than thyme. the distinguishing difference is that rosemary looks like a branch from a pine tree. its a good source of iron, calcium and vitamin b6, and research has shown that rosemary may deter the formation of carcinogenic compounds during grilling, says haas. its best to use rosemary during cooking or for marinades, and the sprigs can be used as skewers, like in this rosemary shrimp recipe.sagereminiscent of thanksgiving, sage is synonymous with fall dishes. a member of the mint family, sage is slightly bitter and has a mild sweetness with floral tones, says haas. it also contains flavonoid and polyphenol compounds, which serve as antioxidants. haas cautions that sage is delicate, so it needs to be used at the end of cooking. its great in pastas, compound butters and deserts, like this cherry crumble with sage brown sugar.cilantrocilantro is quite divisive, since people either love it or hate it. cilantro tastes a bit citrusy and pungent; though, some think it has an unusual soapiness, says newgent. cilantro is actually the spanish translation for the leaves of the coriander plant, she adds. newgent also recommends using cilantro in cold prep, but not during cooking. it pairs with mexican, asian and indian dishes, like this coconut cauliflower couscous,\" remarks newgent.dillone of the most underrated fresh herbs, dill is actually used more often than you may realize  dill pickles or tzatziki sauce anyone? dill tastes both sweet and sour, and it has a hint of citrus. its a good source of calcium and iron, and the flavor pairs well with virtually any dish. try using it on salads, baked potatoes or in savory baked goods, like these hard-boiled egg cheddar muffins.oreganooregano tastes like italy, if the country had a taste! says newgent. in other words, its kind of pungent, woodsy, and bold with a sweet spiciness. youve probably doused your pizza with dried oregano, but using the fresh stuff is far more rare. its often too pungent to eat raw, so fresh oregano is best when used in the last 15 minutes of cooking, according to newgent. fresh oregano makes a great accompaniment to a pot of beans, a lemony marinade or a simple marinara sauce.minteveryone knows what mint tastes like because of, well, toothpaste. but fresh mint has a stronger, sweeter and earthier taste. mint has long been revered for its ability to treat stomach woes, and research has even linked it to treating irritable bowel syndrome (ibs). mint is often used in middle easter dishes and teas, but it also makes a great addition to a green smoothie.more better-for-you recipes13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonight6 dinner recipes to eat after a particularly stressful dayhealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for you12 better-for-you summer barbecue recipeswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

whether youre cooling down after a run or doing a few stretches at your desk when work is starting to become a pain in the neck (literally), most of us recognize the benefit of stretching.but we can also probably admit we arent doing enough of it. the problem is, we tend to think of it as a bookend to more strenuous exercise  a form of movement used to warm up before you get to the real work or cool down afterwards. but stretching is actually a vital, albeit overlooked, form of exercise, and experts say that the body should be engaging in it on a consistent basis.according to john ford, certified exercise physiologist, owner of jkf fitness &amp; health in new york city, flexibility is one of the five components of fitness, which can have its own tailored exercise program to get specific improvements. \"when we talk about stretching we are describing an exercise that can maintain or improve a persons flexibility. flexibility is defined as the range of motion of a joint or group of joints. the range of motion of any particular joint is dependent on the makeup of your muscles, your physical activity/exercise, your anatomical structure (shout out to the double jointed among us), age and gender. thus, stretching for flexibility is designed to actively target the range of motion.\"just as other forms of body conditioning like strength training and cardio are a necessary part of a fitness routine, stretching should not be overlooked, adds kevin ramsey, lead stretch therapist at massage envy. stretching helps to resolve tension in the muscles. when this tension is resolved, muscles have a better chance of getting the circulation they need to function normally. circulation is vital in all tissues of the body because this is how nutrition is distributed throughout the tissues. to that extent, stretching may be seen as a form of self-care or conditioning all on its own.what stretching does for the bodywhile stretching is a movement we certainly can perform at home, its becoming increasingly popular in the fitness space, not only on class schedules at big box gyms, but with boutique studios dedicated solely to stretching. assisted stretching, done with the help of a professional service provider or stretching coach, is proven to increase mobility, flexibility and blood flow and improve how muscles function, says ramsey.here are a few of the other benefits that can be reaped from a consistent stretching routine:it helps muscles heal: perhaps the most recognized benefit of stretching  and most commonly applied use  is as a recovery after strenuous exercise. \"one of the main benefits of stretching is realigning tissue within the muscle and connective tendons. during physical activity, fibers can often become disorganized and stressed. stretching helps to realign them so that they can heal properly,\" says ford. \"during strenuous activity muscle fibers can become overly contracted. if not properly stretched and smoothed, the fibers can be more prone to pulls, tears and a shortening of their range of motion. thats where a good full body static stretch routine performed while the body is still warm from your cool down can be most beneficial, because your muscles are most receptive at that point.\"it prevents everyday aches and pains: when you start to notice minor aches and discomfort or limited movement in certain muscles, you may brush it off as normal tension that results from sitting at a desk, carrying a heavy load of groceries or pushing through a tough workout. but this is the bodys way of communicating that certain muscles need some extra attention in order to facilitate better circulation and to recover faster, says ramsey. if this tension is resolved, the aches tend to diminish or go away and the muscles are returned to normal function. however, if the tension in the muscle is not resolved, the muscle tends to guard by tightening, which may continue to limit mobility and flexibility, and the body may continue to experience some level of aches or pains. stretching, if done correctly, is one of the simplest forms of body maintenance, which almost anyone can do on their own. ford agrees: \"i attribute proper stretching to a broad range of my athletic accomplishments and current capabilities. as a former competitive athlete, i deal with a lot of joint pain and overuse injuries. joint pain can often be attributed to tight muscles. stretching is one of the most effective ways to loosen those tight muscles.\"it improves your workouts: stretching is a simple and effective activity that helps to enhance athletic performance, decrease the likelihood of injury, and assists with injury rehabilitation, says brad walker, author of ultimate guide to stretching\" and the director of education at stretchlab, an l.a.-based assisted stretching franchise concept, that offers both one-on-one stretching and group classes. as a result, a reduction in general muscle tension is achieved and our ability to bend, reach and turn is improved. how exactly does an increase in range of motion translate to our weekly bootcamp or yoga class? \"ive been able to work out harder and more efficiently by maintaining my flexibility and range of motion throughout all of my joints by stretching,\" says ford. \"a greater range of motion can lead to gains in physical performance. for instance, if you have tight hips and a lower back, youll be limited in your range of motion during a squat or lunge exercise. this means that you cant fully utilize all the muscles used during the motion, plus youll most likely also be putting more pressure on the supporting ligaments of the joints used. as you improve your flexibility you will be able to use the proper muscles during the movement and those muscles to better effect.\"and it improves normal, everyday movements, too: \"another way in which stretching can be helpful is by leaving you better prepared to perform everyday physical activities. from carrying bags, to moving items in your office or home, or even running to catch the subway,\" says ford. while we tend to think of stretching in terms of enhancing our physical fitness routine, ramsey adds that \"stretching compliments and enhances everything else we do throughout the day as well.it can help you de-stress: \"finally, stretching can be really relaxing. the best forms of stretching include a breathing component that connects breath to movement, ala yoga,\" says ford. \"when youre taking deep breaths and really feeling and listening to your body while stretching, it works almost as a form of meditation. i always feel more centered after my post-workout static stretch.\"the 3 types of people who need to stretch more oftenthere are a few different groups of people who tend to suffer a little more than others when it comes to stiff, tight muscles, says walker. if you fall into one of these categories, it may be time to start scheduling stretch sessions into your weekly routine:you sit a lot. whether office workers behind a desk or drivers behind a steering wheel, the sitting position causes a lot of issues with the upper back, neck and shoulders, says walker. ford agrees: \"people leading more sedentary lives benefit greatly from stretching. specifically, when it comes to their hamstrings and lower back,\" he says.you stand a lot. the next group are the opposite of the first. these are the people who spend a lot of time standing, which causes a lot of issues with the lower back, hips  and calves, says walker.youre an athlete. athletes or those competing in sports recreationally also will see benefits,\" says ford. \"whether it is increases in range of motion that lead to greater mobility on the field or increases in strength and speed. they will also find that stretching can help with the recovery process helping to realign damaged fibers and loosen stiff muscles.\"do you pass the flexibility test?there are certainly healthy ranges of motion that the average person should be able to achieve, says walker. he recommends these two flexibility tests that can help you gauge where you stand:the sit-and-reach test: sit with legs straight out in front, toes pointing up and reaching forward with fingertips towards your toes. the result of this test is a great indication of the flexibility of the muscles that make up the posterior chain (neck, upper back, lower back, glutes, hamstrings, calves). a fair to average result for most people would be the ability to get within a range of 2 inches before or after their toes.apleys shoulder mobility test: reach one arm up and behind your back and the other arm down and behind your back, and see how close your fingertips come to touching each other. the result of this test is a great indication of the flexibility of the muscles that make up the shoulder girdle (chest, upper back, shoulders). a fair to average result for most people would be the ability to get their fingertips within 1 inch of each other.okay, so how can we actually get more flexible?if you didnt perform as well on the tests as youd like, it may be time to start putting in work to increase your flexibility.the type of stretching someone does before or after a workout is very different from the type of stretching that is required to improve flexibility and range of motion, says walker. the purpose of a warm up or cool down is not to improve flexibility; its to prepare your body for activity or to restore your body to a pre-exercise level. if your goal is to improve your flexibility, then stretching should be seen as its own session, just as strength training or cardiovascular training is its own session.the good news is, once you commit to a regular stretching program, changes begin to occur within the muscles. \"other tissues that begin to adapt to the stretching process include the tendons, fascia, skin and scar tissue, adds walker. heres where to start:do a body inventory. stretching is a highly individualized activity, so start by tuning into your body. understanding which stretches will work for you all starts with listening to your body. after all, if the main source of tension is in the shoulders, then exhaustive hamstring stretches may not be the most effective, says ramsey. listening to your body gets easier over time, if done regularly. simply pay attention to those areas where you feel aches or pains.consider consulting a professional. while a full-body stretch is never a bad idea, a professional can help you identify your specific trouble zones. some people are tighter in the front of their bodies (chest, shoulders, hips), while others are tighter in the back of their bodies (lower back, hamstrings, calves). some even have imbalances from one side of the body to the other, says walker. the best thing you can do is come to understand what your body needs, or have a [professional] assess you during a one-on-one stretching session, and address your personal imbalances and tight spots. consulting a professional doesnt have to break the bank: stretch and mobility classes are offered through classpass and are on the schedule at gyms like planet fitness, equinox and golds gym, and boutique studios offer special rates for first time clients (at stretchlab, you can get a 25 minute one-on-one session for just $29.)schedule a stretch session 2-3 times a week. stretching is no different to any other form of exercise,\" says ramsey. \"if you want to get stronger, you need to do strength work at least two to three times a week. if you want to improve your cardiovascular fitness, then you need to do aerobic exercise at least two to three times a week. if you want to improve your flexibility and range of motion on a permanent, long term basis you need at least two to three (30 to 60 minute) dedicated stretching sessions a week.hold each stretch for 30 seconds. in both the sitting and standing stretch program ford prescribes his clients, he instructs them to hold each stretch for a minimum of 30 seconds. ramsey agrees: the stretch reflex is designed as a protective mechanism in the body, which helps to keep over-taxed muscles in a safe range of motion until the tension resolves and the muscle can return to normal function. research shows that holding a stretch for 30 seconds or more allows the muscle to overcome the stretch reflex and continue to relax and release, creating more nerve activity and circulatory activity, which helps to resolve the existing tension.dont push a muscle too far. most importantly, take your time and ease into stretching. it is important to note that stretching should always be done safely and within the muscles limitations, says ramsey. in other words, challenging the muscle is good, but not to a point of pain. stretching should always be comfortable.try these fitness routines10 core exercises that are better for your back (and body) than crunches5 exercises you can perform anywhere, anytimea 10-minute cardio workout you can do at home5 exercises that will strengthen your back and reduce pain8 exercises trainers never do (and what to do instead)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

home security systems are supposed to protect you from criminals, but rogue alarm companies and dishonest sales people have figured out ways to rip off people who already have a system or who want to buy one.complaints about home alarm sales are now an area of particular concern, according to the 2017 consumer complaint survey report released in july. this annual report from the consumer federation of america (cfa) is based on surveys of state and local consumer protection agencies.the problems reported by disgruntled homeowners ranged from misleading sales claims and scare tactics to outright fraud.were concerned about these alarm sales abuses because its very easy to rope people into these deals, said susan grant, cfa director of consumer protection and privacy. many of the consumers involved are elderly or disabled and dont really understand whats going on.deception 1: scare tacticsfear sells security alarms, so scammers and unscrupulous alarm companies often use alarming crime statistics  that may not be true  as part of their sales pitch. their mailers are designed to mislead or confuse, often made to look like theyre from your mortgage lender or local government agencies.hundreds of new homebuyers in and around cleveland received a community awareness bulletin last year that appeared to be from cuyahoga county. the bogus letter, complete with the official county logo, warned about home break-ins and home invasions in the area because of the opioid crisis and offered a free home security package.the letter was not from the county; it was from an alarm company that was trying to sign-up new customers.if someones trying to scare you into buying something right away, you should slow down, because panic can affect your thinking, said sheryl harris, director of the cuyahoga county dept. of consumer affairs. if you decide you are interested in a service, check out the sellers reputation and get quotes from competitors.remember: its public information when you buy a house or refinance a loan, so expect to get solicitations from home security companies.deception 2: lies, lies and more liesdont think youre safe, just because you already have an alarm system.door-to-door con artists will try to convince you that they represent (or are working with) your current alarm company to upgrade your system. sometimes, they claim your monitoring service has gone out of business and they have acquired their customers.fall for the pitch, and youll wind up being double-billed  by your old alarm company and the new one.in georgia, dishonest door-to-door salespeople who told those lies sold nearly 6,000 home alarm systems last year, before the state attorney generals office stepped in. the states lawsuit claimed the salespeople also lied when they said police officers living in the area had purchased their system.they were very convincing, and thousands of people believed them, said shawn conroy, communications and outreach coordinator with the georgia attorney generals office.but how do the fraudsters know which alarm company you have? they look for the alarm company sign in your yard or the sticker in your window, conroy told nbc news better.karen griffin is convinced thats why the crooked salesman showed up at her door and not her neighbors house  she had an alarm sign out front. the fraudster convinced griffin to sign a contract with his company to upgrade her system.the only thing they did was change the main keypad at the front door, griffin said. the system never worked after that, but they still wanted us to pay them.fortunately for griffin, the georgia attorney general was able to get refunds for her and the other victims.deception 3: just sign hereits not uncommon for door-to-door salespeople to show the customer an electronic contract on their computer and have them agree to it by providing a digital signature. this can result in serious problems.you cant properly review a contact on the small screen of a hand-held device. get a physical copy of that contract, so you can read it and make sure its correct.consumer confusion: automatic renewalif you buy a security alarm system, you may be required to sign up for monthly monitoring for a year or more. typically, theres a penalty for early cancellation.many alarm contracts have an auto-renewal clause that can trap you into a long-term monitoring commitment without your follow-up consent. if you dont decline to renew at the end of the term, often in writing weeks before the contract period ends, that agreement is automatically renewed for another term.it can be pretty sneaky, said john breyault, who runs national consumers leagues fraud.org. many consumers dont understand that theyre signing up for an automatically renewing contract.the bottom linedoor-to-door sales are always risky because the salesperson is in your home. dont let anyone rush you or pressure you into buying something you dont want. high-pressure sales tactics often indicate a scam. if you feel pressured, theres no need to be polite  tell the person to leave.georgia attorney general chris carr advises against letting anyone into your house without a prescheduled appointment. your current alarm company will never show up unannounced to upgrade your equipment or switch service.carr provided nbc news better with these other tips:always ask to see the salespersons id.if youre interested in the product or service, ask the salesperson to leave some written materials that you can review, rather than signing a contract or making a purchase on the spot.never sign a contract without first reading it thoroughly and making sure you understand everything.get all prices, warranties and cancellation policies in writing.never pay in cash.remember: door-to-door sales purchases of $25 or more are subject to the federal trade commissions cooling-off rule, which gives you the right to cancel your purchase within three business days and receive a full refund.the bbb warns homeowners to beware whenever someone shows up unannounced at your door. the ftc has a tip sheet on avoiding alarm scams and the electronic security association has a own fact sheet on purchasing an alarm system from your doorstep.more scam alertsbeware the utility company imposter scamhow to avoid tax scammersspotting (and avoiding) social media scamswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

for most people, the word fasting brings up the notion of prolonged periods without food or maybe even drink. some people fast periodically for religious reasons or medical necessity (say, before a procedure). but a new type of diet has people fasting to lose weight, improve health, live longer (and healthier), boost mental clarity, and more. heres what you need to know about this trendy fast.intermittent fasting may be practiced in a few different ways, according to research on the subject:alternate day fasting is just what it sounds like. on alternating days, you either feast or fast.modified fasting, also known as 5:2 intermittent fasting, involves eating normally five days a week with food restricted to about 25% of your calorie needs on two non-consecutive days. (think: around 500 calories or less on restricted days.)time restricted fasting limits food within specific time windows, say 8 pm to 10 am. in this type of fasting, you go 12 to 16 hours restricting food.will you lose weight?these forms of fasting do appear to promote weight loss, according to a review study published in august, 2017. however, the science is thin among humans and typical studies involve small sample sizes and limited durations. still, the outcomes suggest that people do lose weight so if you want to give it a go, heres what you should know.how does intermittent fasting work?there are a few things at play. your circadian clock is actively involved in regulating your metabolism and many hormones, including the appetite-regulating hormones leptin and ghrelin, are subject to these day/night patterns. studies have shown that eating the majority of food earlier in the day aligns more closely with our circadian rhythms, and disrupting these rhythms by eating late at night or say, eating in accordance with shift work, leads to a higher post-meal glucose response, prolonged insulin exposure, and a greater risk of type 2 diabetes and obesity.beyond this, theres a behavioral component at play. late night snacking can be a common practice (as any of us who have cozied up to a bowl of popcorn knows), and putting rules in place to offset this helps limit overeating.jamie i. baum, phd, associate professor of nutrition director, center for human nutrition at the department of food science, university of arkansas, says that many plans, including intermittent fasting, are effective for weight loss, and that cutting calories (whether through intermittent fasting or another method) seems to be the main factor behind the slimdown. in fact, one study published in jama comparing people who participated in alternate day fasting to those who were just on a standard, reduced-calorie diet found that there was no difference in weight loss or weight maintenance over the course of one year between the two groups.what are some of the other benefits of intermittent fasting?according to wayne b. jonas, m.d., executive director of samueli integrative health programs, and author of the book \"how healing works,\" restricting eating to daytime hours optimizes and extends your bodys natural cleansing process, which may have other benefits, such as improved alertness and attention, lower body-wide inflammation, a reduced risk of illness, and promoting a longer (and healthier) life. to optimize this process, you need at least 10 to 12 hours without food intake, he says.it doesnt matter whether youre a night owl or a morning bird, he explains. the key is to stop eating a few hours before bed. the food you eat before bed doesnt have a chance to be used as energy so not only does it promote fat storage, it interferes with the bodys cleansing process.dr. jonas points to another benefit of intermittent fasting: eating more mindfully. there are so many social and environmental cues that prompt us to eat (and overeat) so adding some guardrails around when (and when not) to dine can help you reign in some of the grazing behaviors that arent serving you well.finally, poor sleep quality and getting insufficient sleep is a known risk factor for obesity and by restricting nighttime eating (and thus, reducing heartburn), you could get more sleep and the sleep you get may even be more satisfactory, which definitely brings health benefits.what are some of the downsides of intermittent fasting?some studies find a higher drop out right among intermittent fasters, which suggests it might not be a sustainable approach. plus, it might have other consequences. if, for instance, youre doing alternate day fasting and all you can think about on your fasting days is food, that can interfere with focus, and potentially your on-the-job performance. plus, there may be social implications to intermittent fasting. are your friends gathering for dinner at 7 and youre cut off from food at 6? you can see how this could interfere with your social life.there may be medical concerns as well. in this year-long study, unhealthy ldl cholesterol had increased significantly after 12 months among the alternate fasting group. this might spell trouble for your heart.finally, ive heard of people using their non-fasting days to fill up on foods, like pizza, rich desserts, french fries and other fare that is low in nutrition and doesnt fuel a healthy body. though you may still lose weight due to the calorie deficits on other days, you wont get the protective benefits of good nutrition.who can benefit from intermittent fasting?if youre a fan of an all-or-nothing approach, or if youre someone who likes defined rules to follow, intermittent fasting could be worth trying. it also might be especially good for people who participate in mindless snacking at night since the hard stop will curb this behavior.who shouldnt try intermittent fasting?do not attempt fasting if youve had an eating disorder or signs of disordered eating, which include (but arent limited to) binge eating, food obsession, misuse of laxatives and extreme food restriction. if youre pregnant or breast feeding, you should not attempt intermittent fasting. anyone being treated for diabetes (with medications) as well as anyone with cancer and those with a compromised immune system should also avoid intermittent fasting (or speak to their doctor before trying it).what should know before you give it goif you do try it, make your calories count by choosing wholesome foods that do a good job filling you up. focus on a variety of veggies to make sure you get an array of healthy compounds, along with quality protein sources (such as eggs, skinless poultry, tuna and other seafood), which do a good job keeping hunger at bay. balance out your meals with fruits and whole grains. if youre doing an alternate fasting diet, youll want to pay really close attention to lower calorie foods that create volume  both on your plate and in your belly. remember, as with any sensible eating plan, non-starchy vegetables are your friends.experts believe that the real key to lasting weight lies in how you handle the maintenance phase.and dont forget, its not a magic bullet. experts believe that the real key to lasting weight lies in how you handle the maintenance phase. its not easy, but a lot of people do successfully lose weight, says dr. jonas. you need to pay attention to what you eat, how much you eat, and how youre supporting that process  either with a group or a friend or a healthcare professional to keep you accountable and help you manage the normal slip-ups that are a part of life.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

is there anything we rely on more than chicken for a quick and healthy(ish) weeknight dinner? its tasty, versatile and can play the leading role in oh-so-many meals. but lets face it, all chicken all the time can get a little boring. if youre in a poultry rut, we have some ideas to rev up your standard-issue chicken dinner.the best chicken you will ever eatstarting with the chicken dish that i judge all other chicken dishes against, we have a super juicy, incredibly flavorful grilled chicken that is, in fact, the best chicken you will ever eat. after finding this recipe on melissa joulwans blog i bought the book it appears in, \"well fed: paleo recipes for people who love to eat\". (dont worry, you dont need to follow the paleo diet to appreciate this!) something magical happens when everything comes together to make this dish so much more than the sum of its parts.but theres a caveat. it takes a non-weeknight-friendly chunk of time if you follow the recipe to the letter, and especially if you make it with melissas delicious recommended side dish. but i love it so much ive found a way to simplify for weeknights, and the secret is batching.over a weekend i batch the dry ingredients for the first step of brining and keep them in a jar labeled with the amount needed (two tablespoons). and then i batch the dry ingredients for the dipping sauce and add a label and measurement (about one teaspoon).the rub calls for six separate spices. i dont know about you but i dont want to drag six bottles of spices out on tuesday night. the spice combination reminded me of ras el hanout, a spice blend i loved in the souks of marrakech. its readily available at grocery stores or online so i swap out the half dozen assorted spices with a scant quarter cup of ras el hanout.now instead of gathering 14 bottles of spices come dinnertime, i have a couple jars and one spice blend in my pantry ready to go. one time the work, four times the food!and while the moroccan orange salad she recommends with the dish is a stunner, its too ambitious for a weeknight (in my house anyway), so we burn some carrots as our side (the goat cheese and honey in this recipe arent even needed!).leftover chicken and cheese tacoslets say youve roasted a chicken on sunday. just kidding, lets say you picked up a rotisserie chicken on the way home for dinner monday night. what do you do with the leftovers? make tacos, obviously. you dont even have to prepare for leftovers. this chicken and cheese taco dinner would be worth dedicating a whole bird to. loaded with the tomatoes that are just now hitting their summer stride, and creamy with a good dollop of refried beans, this is a super fast meal that just needs one thing: margaritas.miso soy marinated grilled chickenmeal planner jess dang specializes in healthy, fast dinners and a tantalizing grilled chicken with one of her quick and easy marinades is a winner among winners. miso brings that umami that makes a 20-minute marinade taste like something that took a lot more time, and with only five ingredients this is a dinner even the most harried of cooks can whip up. dang suggests making extra of the marinade to have on hand for a green salad vinaigrette or a tasty pasta sauce. and youre not limited to chicken with this recipe: itll work on other proteins including fish and tofu as well as vegetables. this seems worth making a mega batch!pesto chicken skillet supper from the pioneer womanree drumond, aka the pioneer woman, whose show airs on saturdays on the food network, has given us a way to throw late summer into the skillet with some chicken for a colorful, no-fail dinner.her recipe suggests some specific veggies, but we veered a bit off course to use the vegetables we had on hand  including power greens and some hefty heirloom tomatoes gifted by a friend  and honestly, its hard to imagine a summer vegetable that wouldnt work. consider the corn necessary, though. it almost seems to stand in for pasta in this saucy dish, soaking up all that good pesto cream, and filling every last nook and cranny on the spoon.i cant say it came together in the 16 minutes the recipe promises, but maybe we just like our veggies a little more on the well-done side. regardless, it made for a dinner so straightforward we were easily able to prepare it even while our kitchen is being renovated.30-minute pressure cooker chicken, lentil, and bacon stew with carrotsculinary questions in our house are answered by asking wwkd  what would kenji do? our dog-eared copy of j. kenji lpez-alts food lab is the bible of cooking as far as my husband (the primary cook in the family) and i are concerned. when kenji says something is so, we take it as gospel truth and have never been steered wrong. so when he says you can drop eight ingredients into a pressure cooker and have a flavor-packed stew on the table in 30 minutes, we know it to be so.as the best recipes often are, this one keeps things simple and classic with onions, carrots, and bay leaves as the co-stars. dont be fooled by the hearty sounding nature of this chicken stew with its lentils and bacon; finishing it with sherry vinegar, fresh parsley, and olive oil results in a fresh, bright bowl. (if youre watching your fat intake, you can make the recipe lighter by reducing the amount of bacon and choosing skinless chicken thighs.) best of all? if youre just cooking for two youve got lunch covered for tomorrow.more weeknight recipes13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonighthealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for you5 healthier bowls of ramen to make tonightwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

anyone whos ever looked forward to something big and exciting knows too well what follows. whether its a wedding, vacation, big holiday  or even just a particularly nice long weekend  invariably the good times have to come to an end. and then come the post-event blues.you know the feeling: youve been planning and looking forward to this big thing for a good chunk of time. it may have become all consuming. and it was wonderful. but now its over and its back to the usual hum-drum. ive been there. after the kentucky derby this year when the mint juleps stopped flowing and i traded by big hat and fancy dress for work-from-home attire, it was hard to just sit at my laptop. of course after every trip to paris its the same letdown. thinking about a major event like a wedding? the struggle must be real.to find out how we can all cope with the post-whatever the case may be blues, i talked with jocelyn charnas, a clinical psychologist practicing in manhattan  also known as the wedding doctor  for her work helping couples deal with the very real aftermath of their big day.what youre feeling is realand she wants you to know, that yes, when it comes to the blues like this, it absolutely is a real thing. ive felt it in my own life and i see it in my office very week, she said. any life event that we look forward to we run the risk of having a little bit of the blues after. its sort of a normal human experience.when it comes to weddings, charnas said, a lot of it stems from the tremendous expectations that we put on the wedding date and the tremendous focus that we put on it in the months preceding it. one could argue that it has gotten worse in the era of social media  the behemoth of the wedding industry, the idea that this should be quote unquote the best day of our lives, women can spend years [planning this one day].after sinking so much energy into one day, its almost inevitable that after the fact there is a sense of disappointment and letdown, she said. in a way its a loss that we mourn.how to get ahead of the letdownso what can we do about it? well, to start, even expecting and respecting that there will be those feelings gives us license to feel the blues, charnas said. the worst thing we can do in invalidate our own feelings and kick them under rugs. it should be normalized, this is something we look very forward to and its natural. theres no way to get rid of it completely.if its the best day of your life thats wonderful, but the truth is its just a party to signify the start of a life together.but you can help mitigate it, she said. a big one i work on with clients as theyre approaching their wedding and marriage is to shift their focus from the wedding to the marriage itself and the relationship. that not only helps ease the blues, she said, but is important in regaining perspective. if its the best day of your life thats wonderful, but the truth is its just a party to signify the start of a life together.another technique for minimizing letdown in the aftermath  not just for weddings, but for anything that can take over our lives  is to try to be aware when we are being all consumed, whether its wedding, renovation, whatever it is. in her work with couples, charnas encourages them to not make the wedding all there is in their lives. have two days where you dont talk about it, she said. the idea is to balance our focus so that its not such a disproportionate piece of our lives, so were not so starved [for it] after the fact.when shes working with a couple she thinks this may be a big issue for, she suggests maybe not going on the honeymoon immediately after the wedding, but spreading things out so there are more things to look forward to. because its only natural to want to look forward to something, she said. i love to have a vacation on the horizon  it brings me pleasure. its wonderful to set things up in life that ill get joy out of. she cautioned, however, the problem is when its never enough, when we cant tolerate not having something to look forward to. we have to ask ourselves, she said whats going on when daily life isnt meeting our needs?another contributor to the blues phenomenon is forgetting the rest of our life when were immersed in the big event. sometimes when were so focused on one thing its at the expense of other things, charnas said. when we put off other things for a long time were then faced with the enormity of those things [afterwards]. whether youre planning a wedding, a big vacation, or a whole house renovation, life must go on, she said.you have to be realisticheres the thing. yes, we can take these steps to address the blues, said charnas. but, some of this has to be expected. despite whats on instagram we are not going to be happy every single day of our lives. some days were happy, some days were nervous, some days not much of anything happens. this idea that every day has to be this fabulous instagram filtered event leads people to those unrealistic idea of what life should be like. coming back to work after vacation that stinks, thats a bummer for everyone. maybe there doesnt need to a way to mitigate that. we have to be able to have the blues after vacation so we can look forward to the next one.more coping strategiesa daily ritual that will help you de-stresshow to bounce back from headline stress disorderwhy the simple act of being in nature helps you de-stresswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

personal finance writer michael timmermann is keeping all his receipts and saving hundreds in the process.the personal finance writer says his save your savings challenge garnered him $1,000 in just seven months. the process, he says, is simple.lets say you purchase a pair of sneakers at 50 percent off, says timmermann. in the you saved section at the bottom of the receipt, it tells you exactly how much you saved. you might think youve saved a lot of money, he says, but if you then spend that savings on something else, you didnt save at all.thats just fake savings, because real savings is in an account thats earning interest, timmermann tells nbc news better.he says to hold off on those extra purchases and hold onto your receipts instead.save all your receiptswhen you buy something on sale or with a coupon, retailers often include a you saved section at the bottom of the receipt telling you how much you saved, says timmermann.instead of tossing the receipt, put it in a jar or shoebox. at the end of each month, go through the receipts and tally up the amounts you saved. then transfer the exact amount to an account that collects interest.i take that total number and i transfer it into an online savings account with a decent interest rate where that money sits until the end of the challenge, timmermann says.now in month 10, timmermann says he has saved $1,456.run your receipts through cash-back appsyou can make a few extra dollars when you run your receipts through cash-back rewards apps like ibotta, fetch rewards and receipt hog, says timmermann.and all three of those apps will give you just minimal amounts of cash back for your purchases, particularly grocery stores, by scanning your receipts, he says.create a goalthe next step, the writer says, is to establish a goal for what you will do with your savings when it reaches a certain amount, whether its investing or using it to pay down your debts. in my case, i set a goal to take the money from my online savings account and transfer it to a roth ira at the end of this challenge, he says.check your negative spending habitstimmermann says the challenge will give you insight into where you tend to splurge. in his case, he says he realized he was spending too much money at the grocery store  throwing whatever items that tempted him into his cart.at one point i said, wow, ive gone to the grocery store three times this week, thats way too much, i need to be planning my grocery shopping list a little bit more efficiently so i only have to go one time, he says.now, he keeps a precise list of what he needs to buy. he also cut the number of trips he makes to the grocery store each week.over the course of this challenge, im noticing every month that i have fewer and fewer receipts in the box for each separate month, he says.improve short-term savings goalsmost people make savings goals for the long-term, but the receipt challenge helps you focus on short savings, whether you need to pay off a loan or create an emergency fund, says timmermann.i think something like the save your savings challenge and keeping your receipts like this is something that gives you a daily reminder of the importance of saving  thats good for everyone in the long run, he says.how the save your savings challenge worksbank those receipts. whenever you save on a purchase, stash the receipt in a jar or shoebox. at the end of each month, tally the amounts you saved listed on the bottom of the receipts. then transfer the exact amount to an account that collects interest.run your receipts through cash-back apps. you can make a few extra dollars when you run your receipts through rewards apps like ibotta, fetch rewards and receipt hog, says timmermann.set a goal. establish a goal for what to do with your savings once its reached a certain amount, whether its investing or paying down debt.review your habits. when youre looking through your receipts, note the purchases you tend to splurge on and figure out how to change your poor spending habits.get more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 daysneed to save money fast? try a spending banwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

with just four full months left to go in 2018, im sure im not the only one who is starting to feel the pressure. there are so many things i wanted to do this year that ive fallen behind on. the end of the year is often a stressful time in general, but it can be especially stressful, financially, due to the winter holidays.but dont panic! there is still time to get back on track with your money-related goals. its easier than you think to turn your finances around  and it wont require that you stop spending money all together. there are some tasks that are much easier to complete than you think that can help the rest of your year go smoothly. if you have some time to spare today, or a few hours this weekend, thats all you need to set yourself up for a financially successful 2019.1. review your spending to see what you can cut immediately.when was the last time you set aside a portion of your day to closely examine your recent spending? making the time to review your budget regularly is a great way to catch yourself if youre starting to go off track. whether you do this weekly, monthly or quarterly, its important to make it a habit so you can course-correct early on. set a reminder on your phone and block out up to thirty minutes of your day to take an honest look at your finances.you can take a closer look at that discretionary spending with a 15-minute exercise. jeff proctor, personal finance blogger at dollarsprout.com, recommends a hands-on approach for reviewing your budget, especially for the small expenses that add up: get out a piece of paper, pull up your online banking information, and write down every single recurring subscription that you have paid in the past 90 days. something about actually putting pen to paper and looking at your subscription spending in one spot really helps you evaluate if you really need all of that stuff youre paying for.after youve decided what you can learn to go without, take into account what you enjoy spending money on, and work that spending into your budget if you havent already. if you already have three to six months of expenses in your emergency fund, consider funding other accounts for your short- or medium-term future with the money youre saving by cutting down discretionary spending. if you consistently come in under the 30% discretionary spending (if youre following the 50-20-30 rule), consider saving more.once youve reviewed (or created) your budget, the most important thing you can do is to actually stick to it. chelsea hudson, personal finance expert at topcashback.com, advises, hold yourself accountable to your newly-adopted budget. keep track of every dollar you spend in a journal or spreadsheet to ensure you dont overspend. take a few minutes every day to track your purchases and ensure that youre meeting your goals. this will make every subsequent spending review an easier and more pleasant experience than waiting until the end of the year to try to piece together what went wrong.2. set savings goals for your holidays and other future expenses.now that you know how much more money you can allocate towards savings, its time to look to the future. gifts for your loved ones, new tires for your car, a dream vacation and home repairs are all examples of infrequent expenses that can potentially wreck your budget. while its possible to dip into an emergency fund or use a credit card, one great financial strategy is to anticipate these expenses instead of just reacting to them. take 30 minutes today to set goals for your holiday season (or other big end-of-year expenses) so you know what youre up against and can start saving now.luis rosa, a certified financial planner with build a better financial future, recommends that you start small. break down the amount you plan on spending and save a portion every paycheck toward that goal, he says. this way, when the holidays or any other large expense you planned for comes, you dont have to scramble as to how youre going to be able to afford it.setting automatic transfers to a savings account should only take a couple minutes and will ensure you actually set the money aside. other saving strategies include doing money challenges or spending bans, where money is diverted to other accounts instead of the discretionary portion of your budget.3. open a high-interest savings account and transfer your nest egg to it.but where should you put all the money you have saved for immediate goals? when i first started managing my own finances, i didnt know that there were different types of savings accounts that came with wildly different interest rates. i just assumed that the paltry amount my traditional bank offered in connection with my checking account was the best i could do.it took me several years to discover that thats not the case  there is a whole other world of high-interest savings accounts. according to pierre habis, president, purepoint financial, most traditional banks interest rates for savings accounts are a fraction of 1%, so its important to check your statement and compare rates. in todays rate environment, if youre not earning at least 1%, youre leaving money on the table.it will only take a couple minutes out of your day to search for the online savings accounts with best interest rates for your money. from there, it wont take long for you to set up an online savings account and start taking advantage of the higher rates. last year, i earned $130 in interest because i used high-interest savings accounts instead of just accepting the rate my traditional bank offered me. thats a respectable chunk of change for just a couple minutes of work.however, if you have a longer spending horizon, you might want to consider investing so inflation doesnt take as big a bite out of your money. if your goal is a few years out, consider investing that savings so you can take advantage of the power of compounding and investment growth, recommends wendy liebowitz, cfp and vice president at fidelity investments.4. get a copy of your credit report and check your credit score.your credit score and report can be major influences on your day-to-day life. they tell potential lenders and even employers whether or not you have a good track record with your credit, which helps them decide just how much of a financial risk you are. however, its not uncommon for your credit report to have errors in it, and those errors can drag down your credit score.credit reports often have mistakes and are the first place we see identity theft, so you really want to make sure you are checking it at least yearly, says jennifer beeston of guaranteed rate mortgage. i generally recommend checking your free credit report from each bureau throughout the year. for example check experian in january, transunion in may, and equifax in september. that way you are getting multiple snapshots of your credit for free without impacting your credit score.if you havent reviewed your credit reports in several years, its wise to check them all at once at annualcreditreport.com and from then move on to checking them at each bureau throughout the year. ensuring that your credit history is accurately reported is worth a few hours of work every year, considering just how big an influence it has on your day-to-day-life. checking it today is a simple way to see where you stand  and if your score needs work, now is the best time to start improving it.get more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayshow stashing receipts saved one man over a $1,000 in 7 monthswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the national institute on alcoholism and abuse defines low-risk drinking for women as no more than seven drinks per week and 14 drinks a week for men  but a recent study published in the lancet might call for a rethink.examining data from almost 600,000 participants, the study found consuming more than 100 grams of alcohol  or roughly more than five drinks a week  was associated with an increased risk of mortality and could take years off your life.if these studies have you examining how much youre drinking, the mindful drinking movement promises to help those with a desire to cut down on their drinking  but maybe not quit altogether. born in the uk and catching on stateside, mindful drinking has spawned a series of events, a popular book  even a study that explores the effect mindfulness has on curtailing alcohol consumption.rosamund dean, a magazine editor and author of \"mindful drinking: how cutting down can change your life\", says though she knew she wasnt an alcoholic, she often drank considerably over recommended limits.people think that there are two types of drinker: alcoholics, whose drinking is ruining their lives and who ought to quit altogether, and normal drinkers, who have a healthy relationship with alcohol. this is utter nonsense, says dean. there are plenty of people who dont need to go into recovery but, nevertheless, drink too much and really should do something about it, for the sake of their health, wealth and happiness.dean says she wrote her book to help herself and others gain control of their drinking. though the term mindful might imply some sort of meditation, deans book is more about gaining self-awareness and shifting your habits around drinking from mindless to mindful consumption.i used to drink wine at home almost every night, evenings out with friends would always involve cocktails and, after a stressful day in the office, a g&amp;t was all i needed to relax. now, i think of alcoholic drinks in the same way that i think about cake or ice-cream. if its a friends birthday or another special occasion, ill almost definitely have an alcoholic drink. but i no longer drink every day just as i wouldnt have cake every day, and i certainly dont have four drinks in a row anymore, because imagine having four ice-creams all at once! dean says.knowing when to say whenknowing when to cut back on alcohol consumption can be difficult and varies for every person. \"national guidelines are a good place to start, however, every persons situation is unique and requires an individualized answer,\" says jared james, m.d., family medicine, mayo clinic health system. dr. james also says that youve ever felt like you should cut back, \"a loved one or a health care professional may be able to provide a more objective opinion and support them in their efforts to decrease alcohol consumption.\"support is key in social situationssocial situations can present the biggest challenge for those looking to drink less. thats why laura willoughby, co-founder of the uk-based mindful drinking festival and support organization club soda, was inspired to create a social space for non-drinkers when she quit imbibing six years ago. there was nothing out there for people who did not identify as alcoholic, or those who wanted help to do a self-guided journey to change their drinking. i wanted a community that supports you whatever your goal  cut down, stop for a bit or quit  and saw changing habits as a positive life change.there are plenty of people who dont need to go into recovery but, nevertheless, drink too much and really should do something about it, for the sake of their health, wealth and happiness.with more than 2,000 participants at her events and programs, willoughby says the mindful drinking movement has gained so much steam because the word mindful implies a sense of self control. it gives you the space to reflect on when, when, what and with whom you drink, which is the foundation for all behavior change, she says.how to drink more mindfullyso how, exactly, do you go about drinking mindfully? dean offers these pointers:prepare mentally for social drinking. always have a plan for when you intend to drink and how much, says dean. never make an exception on the spur of the moment.dont stress-drink. dont use alcohol to deal with difficult or stressful situations, such as family dramas or office politics, dean advises. tempting as it may be, it never makes things situation better.let slip-ups inform you. \"if you wake up feeling terrible, do not feel that now you might as well give up, says dean. instead, take the opportunity to think about what was the situation/feeling/people that make you drink more than you intended, and decide a different way that you might deal with that same situation in the future.researchers are looking into mindful drinkingalthough more research is needed, a small 2017 university college of london study found that 11 minutes of mindfulness training may help drinkers cut back on booze.half of the 68 drinkers underwent a 11-minute mindfulness training session where they were encouraged to stay present and aware of their bodies and their cravings, while the other half of the drinkers were taught relaxation techniques. the result? the mindful drinkers drank less over the next week.though the study didnt look at how mindfulness might have helped to reduce drinking, sunjeev kamboj, ph.d., coordinator for international dclinpsy trainees at the research department of clinical, educational &amp; health psychology at the university college london and one of the authors of the study, thinks mindfulness encourages a particular way of paying attention to your body and external environment, which makes it less likely youll thoughtlessly respond to cravings. they might notice danger signals in the environment or in their bodily reactions and stop themselves from reacting immediately to an urge to drink,\" says kamboj.so, before ordering yet another round, stay present. you might change the way you drink now and in the future.more on drinking and your healthwhat its like to give up alcohol in a wine mom worldhow to talk to your kids about drinkinghow i learned to cope with stress when i gave up alcoholhow to bounce back from a hangoverwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when addie swartz was first starting her career, the market was rough. there just werent any jobs. no one was hiring, she says. with her search in high gear, swartz left no stone unturned and would often check the newspaper for job listings. occasionally shed get distracted by the wedding announcements, and thats where she found it  no, not her happily-ever-after  her job. i saw the bride was working at a company in my area, but the announcement said they were moving to new york. i just assumed that her position would be opening up, so i called, met the right people, and got the job.welcome to the hidden job market  the jobs swirling right below the surface. some dont exactly exist yet, but they will soon. welcome to the hidden job market  the jobs swirling right below the surface. some dont exactly exist yet, but they will soon. others, like the one found by swartz, now ceo of reachhire, a company that works with organizations to promote a gender-diverse workforce and bring women back to work after a career break, simply have yet to be vacated. experts say that today its increasingly possible to access job listings before theyre made public, and meet hiring managers before they have a position to fill  and you dont have to scour marriage announcements to do it. you just have to take these steps.what  and where  is the hidden job market?in september or october of every year, managers at companies with more than 100 employees usually have a pretty good idea of how many people they want to hire for the following 12 months. they arent going to hire everyone at once, however. instead, theyre going to roll out their new hires slowly over the course of the year, explains dave denaro, vice president of career consulting firm keystone partners. all of those openings represent the hidden market. the jobs exist, they just arent being advertised or promoted yet. all those new hires will have to be trained and paid, so companies arent going to go through the strain of having them all start at the same time, denaro says.understanding that this market exists allows you to focus your efforts to get on the radar of company decision-makers ahead of the pack. even if they dont have a job available today, theyll be the ones managing the hiring process throughout the year. hiring managers are also the ones wholl have to handle other vacancies that may pop up, due to people who may be promoted, terminated or quit. you want to be top of mind when they do. think about it this way: its much easier for them to simply pick up the phone and call someone theyve already met and like than it is for them to contact hr, draft a job listing, post the job listing, process through hundreds of applicants, and bring multiple people in for an interview. so, how do you make yourself the person they call first?how to tap into potential jobs before they go publicput together a list of 30 to 40 companies you would like to work for, regardless of whether or not they have open positions. in this market (with more than 6 million jobs available, and unemployment at an all-time low) you have the ability to go after the absolute best company for you, denaro says.once youve got your list, search the companies on linkedin. youre looking for people you either know or are connected with (via friends, previous colleagues or alumni connections) and start reaching out. the probability they would meet you for a cup of coffee is much greater if you have a connection, so start there, denaro says.dont disregard social media. in addition to linkedin, twitter is another place where recruiters are actively looking to fill positions. twitter provides the easiest way to follow a recruiter who will likely reciprocate the follow, explains mark anthony dyson, career coach, and founder of voice of job seekers. if youre savvy enough over time to display value through interactions, the recruiter may be compelled to offer you an opportunity to apply, dyson says. just make sure your profiles on all channels are robust and professional.look for other ways to meet in person. larger companies that frequently look for talent often hold info sessions, hiring fairs or networking meetings, explains swartz. they might not openly call them recruiting sessions, but thats exactly what they are, she says. look for these events directly on the company websites and on eventbrite. eventbrite is a great way to see activities happening with companies, in any city, on any day, swartz says.keep your eyes and ears open. you never know who is sitting right next to you, or where you may see a job listing pop up. keep an eye out for news of companies opening new offices or securing additional funding, which can both be signals that job listings will soon follow.and when you get the meeting?so, you do it all right and  no surprise  you get the meeting. heres what not to do: the worst thing you can do is walk in and say, hey, i brought my resume. can you tell me if there are any jobs? denaro explains. instead, try to turn the manager into a strong advocate who says, i like this person. what can i do for them? once youve established a relationship, then you can inquire about possible opportunities.the most important thing is to make an impression solid enough that they remember you when openings arise. its hard to find 20 programmers or accountants or marketing professionals in a year, he says. they arent going to let someone good slip through their fingers now, only to have to start looking for someone else two months from now. you just have to make sure youre the person theyre zeroed in on next.with kathryn tuggle.take your career to the next levelthe career advice you shouldnt listen to, according to successful female ceoshow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

in the perfect world of instagram and pinterest, weekly meal prep is supposed to be easy. i love to throw a sheet pan dinner in the oven or a pot of soup on the stove for lunch the next day as much as the next gal, but life can get in the way fast  grocery stores get crowded, calendars fill up and occasionally a lunch bag gets forgotten in the fridge.just because youre in a pinch doesnt mean youre doomed to scavenge from the vending machine or spend a fortune on takeout. heres the fall-back plan i use to create meals and snacks from five (or seven, if im feeling hungry) convenience store items. keep a couple of these on hand at your desk and in the office fridge, and you can stay satisfied all day  without breaking the bank (or derailing your diet).7 items to grab at the convenience storeno sugar-added peanut butter (or the nut butter of your choice): $3.99plain greek yogurt (the 2 percent fat variety helps me feel full for longer): $1.69whole grain crackers: $4.99apples (grapes, strawberries or bananas would work as well): $1/each, or $5.99 for a boxa can of chickpeas or tuna: $1.49 &amp; $2.59hard-boiled eggs (1.19 for a pack of two)string or snack-sized cheddar cheese: ($0.99)these staples will keep for at least a few weeks unopened (except for pre-cut fruit), so theyre easy enough to keep on hand and restock as needed.[editors note: prices are based on a new york city-based convenience store and may vary in your area. to get these items even cheaper, scan your local grocery store circulars for better deals.]peanut butter apple parfaitjazz up plain yogurt with a chopped apple and a dollop of peanut butter. simple and classic, the combination of protein from the yogurt, healthy fat from the nut butter and fiber from the apple will keep you fuller longer than your morning bagel. for added flavor, top with cinnamon (and a small amount of honey, if needed) from the office kitchen.lightened up tuna/chickpea saladcombine half a can of your favorite protein, add a few tablespoons of greek yogurt and some salt, pepper and hot sauce or mustard  if spice is your thing  for a minimalist take on tuna salad. (if you opt for the vegetarian version, you can smash the chickpeas with the fork for a more condensed texture.) if you can find lemon wedges at your local coffee shop or in the office kitchen, add a squeeze for a brighter flavor. scoop up with crackers, or if you can sneak away to a pay-per-pound salad bar, put the mixture over some greens  theyre so lightweight, they often dont cost much. for extra protein, slice an egg on top.grown up open-faced pb&amp;ja crunchier version of our first option, top a few crackers with peanut butter and apple slices for a more desk-friendly, bite-sized take on a peanut butter sandwich.afternoon cheese plateskip the pricey snack boxes from your local coffee joint and make your own. slice up a combination of cheese and fruit, a small portion of nuts or a boiled egg and a few whole grain crackers for a quick, protein-packed meal in a pinch.more healthy lunch hacksa weeks worth of healthy lunches for under $20 how to boost the nutrition (and flavor) in your sad desk salad7 healthy recipes you can make in your instant pot in minutesthe healthiest picks at panera breadwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

finding time to exercise in your busy day is a win, no matter what. but choosing the right gear will take your workout to the next level.proper footwear ensures youre making the most of your time in the gym, allows you to move around properly and helps prevent injuries. after all, just like you wouldnt wear flip-flops to a business meeting, you wouldnt want to wear shoes that hold you back from giving it all in a workout.upgrade your worn out sneakers with these picks from some of the countrys top trainers and athletes, as well as everyday shoppers.better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.for strength and conditioning:nike metcon 4, $130, zapposwhether youre lifting dumbbells, using equipment, or just relying on your bodyweight to get stronger, cross-training workouts require a stable, steady shoe. thats why adam rosante, a strength and mental performance coach, recommends this pair from nike. its the best training shoe out there, he says. its super durable, has great lateral stability, and provides the perfect platform for allowing your feet to fire and function naturally.for power walking:new balance womens 365v1 walking shoe, $38-$193, amazonalso available for $60 at zappos.with hundreds of five-star reviews on amazon, these breathable shoes were clearly made for walking. one customer reported that she comfortably walked 15 to 20 miles the first time she wore them, adding that they defied the laws of physics. my feet have never felt lighter with shoes on, she said.if you love a walking workout, check out this round up of the best, most supportive walking shoes on the market.for trail running:hoka one one challenger atr 3, $130, zapposalso available starting at $74 at amazon.when you take your runs onto the trails, extra cushioning is the name of the game. these lightweight but supportive shoes make off-road running so much easier, and the tread provides plenty of traction. trail runner tim freriks says this brand is always his top pick: whether im on a long run through the mountains or in the grand canyon, i know that im wearing the lightest shoe without sacrificing cushion and traction.for barre classes:great soles womens ballet grip socks, $14, amazonthese ballet-inspired workout classes dont require shoes, but you want to wear a pair of non-slip socks to help you get a better grip on the barre and on the floor. these are a top-rated option on amazon. reviewers call them cute and comfortable and report that the quality continues to hold up after many washes.for crossfit:reebok crossfit grace, $99.99, zapposif youre heading to the box (crossfit-speak for the gym), youll want to have the right shoe for your wod (workout of the day).this is the first-ever crossfit shoe built specifically for women, featuring a more slender shape and narrow toe box designed specifically to suit a womans foot. its also been tested and approved by crossfit games athletes like chyna cho.this is the lightest shoe ive trained in from reebok, and translates into real-life clothing, she says. if i were to travel at the airport, i would totally rock this shoe and not feel like a gym rat. and they hold up so well.for hiit classes:nike free focus flyknit training sneakers, starting at $64.99, amazonfor the full-body functional exercises involved in high-intensity interval training (or hiit) classes, you want a shoe thats flexible with a thin, flat sole and a light tread, explains bergen wheeler, creator of exhale spas core fusion hiit classes. this pair will help you feel your feet on the ground, while giving you plenty of stability for high-intensity moves. bonus: these come in an almost endless array of colors.for indoor cycling:shimano sh-rp2 womens touring road cycling shoes, starting at $69, amazonalso available for $79.99 at zappos.crush your next indoor cycling class with this pair of clip-in shoes. designed for recreational riders, the fiberglass-reinforced sole helps boost your power output, while the synthetic leather upper enhances strength and stability. amazon customers say they fit true to size and are so comfy right out of the box.for yoga:sanuk yoga sling 2, $38, zapposalso available for $23-$38 at amazon and for $19.97 at nordstrom rack.sanuk makes shoes for the journey to your happy place. and if yoga class is your happy place, these sandals are the perfect thing to wear on your way there. these slip on and off easily, and the rubber soles  made out of real yoga mat material  provide enough support if you have a longer walk to class. one reviewer reports: i wore these for the first time on an all-day walk around san francisco. there was no break-in time needed. they handled the hills great.for dance cardio:asics gel nimbus, starting at $50, amazonalso available for $160 at zappos.moving your body to beyonces latest track is definitely a fun ways to break a sweat. but with all the jumping and plyometric moves in dance cardio classes, you need a shoe thats suited for shock absorption, explains katia pryce, founder and creator of dancebody. the right shoe is super important for this type of workout because of the lateral movement and constant footwork, she says. these asics are by far the best shoe shes found, and she recommends them to all her clients.for running:mizuno wave rider 21, starting at $80, amazonalso available for $108 at zappos.long runs require shoes with a mix of soft cushioning with plenty of springiness, and these kicks deliver the perfect combination. maegan krifchin, a professional distance runner, says she prefers this style for their just right feeling: they hug my feet but have enough give, support me but dont over-correct, and wont weigh me down, she says. ive gone through at least 24 pairs of wave riders since i started running in them!saucony triumph iso 3, $105 (usually $150), zapposthis lightweight, neutral shoe also provides an ideal amount of flexibility and cushioning for longer runs. celebrity trainer kira stokes laces these up whenever shes running more than five miles. this is a neutral shoe that still allows me to feel the road beneath my feet, she says. they also has a nice wide toe box to allow some breathing room.for any type of cardio:brooks launch 5, $100, zapposif your workouts involve a little bit of everything, this shoe is for you. stokes likes to include some high-intensity training moves into her outdoor runs, and this pair stands up to all her cross-training needs. this is a supportive, low profile shoe that provides just the right amount of cushioning, which allows you to maintain stability while moving in different directions, she says.more workout geargear and gadgets that will take your workout to the next levelcreate your own gym with these products under $209 fitness apps that eliminate every workout excusethis article was originally published on today and was updated on august 24, 2018.

the summer weather may still be in full force, but fall is definitely in the air, at least when you consider one of the years biggest retail events: back-to-school (b2s) shopping, projected to garner $27.6 billion in consumer dollars, with the average household spending $510, up $9 from 2017, according to a deloitte survey.the summer has already seen two of major discount extravaganzas pass, as sara skirboll, resident shopping and trends expert at retailmenot, with memorial day and amazon prime day. but deals are heating up as the days pays, with some of the biggest blowouts still available (and possibly reaching peak savings value come labor day weekend).many sales are already underway, so shoppers can definitely start comparing prices (and shopping) now, says courtney jesperspen, consumer savings expert at nerdwallet. in general, the closer shoppers wait until the beginning of the school year, the more discounts they can expect to find. of course, inventory can be more picked over by then.weve compiled a list of expert tips on how to get the best savings  and navigate the chaos with as little stress as possible.budget, price compare and leave the little kids out of itconsumers should approach b2s shopping in much the same way that they approach black friday shopping, says jespersen. the rules are simple: if you want to get a good deal, you need to make a budget, shop around and compare prices. parents on a tight budget can spread out their spending so the entire cost of back-to-school doesnt hit at once.chelsea hudson, online shopping and deal expert at topcashback.com adds that consumers should further prep by taking inventory of what they already have, and leave the little kids at home.unless you have a teenager and it is necessary to have them pick out what items they need, leave the kiddos at home to prevent overspending, she says.heed the sunday papertodays consumer tends to be inundated with ads online as well as on their mobile devices; but for b2s shopping, you may want to consider an old standard in coupon clipping: the sunday paper.grab a sunday paper for coupons on b2s items, says hudson. the most popular way to save during [these] shopping sprees is looking for sales and deals (77 percent), according to topcashback.com. many brands such as target, walmart, and dollar store will present coupons in your local paper to help you save more.shop around to get the biggest bang for your buckyou may find great sales at one store  but shop around before committing.parents often make the mistake of going to one store to shop for all their b2s needs. head to a variety of stores, including walmart, target, staples and the dollar store to see what types of sales they offer. staples has $0.50 and $1.00 deals on the same products you could also find at walmart. dont skip the clearance section either; you can find end-of-summer deals on clothes that your kids can still wear through september and into october.you can save big now on these itemsyou should be taking advantage of current sales on these items:sneakersb2s deals on kids sneakers are great now, says fabregas. expect to find half-off deals at academy, dicks, and mall stores through the end of august.student tech geargreat deals on b2s student tech gear can be found now at the apple store (free beats headphones on ipad pro/mac purchases plus $200 off macs via education pricing), and through the usual suspects: bestbuy, amazon, and smaller tech outlets like b&amp;h, says fabregas. for smart tech buys, online price comparisons are the only way to ensure youre getting the best deal. b2s tech sales and education prices often deliver genuine deals, but be sure to compare processing speeds, and capacity between bottom-dollar and slightly more expensive units. sometimes, just $50 more will get you a faster processor or double the hard drive space, which can be the better value in the long run.new products were released in june, so look to retailers like best buy and apple for great savings on last years models, adds skirboll.binders and office suppliesaugust is prime time for purchasing b2s supplies, including pens, pencils, binders, folders and the like, says jespersen. skirboll adds that while all manner of school supplies are discounted in the run-up to the new school year, adults in need of office supplies can also benefit from the savings this season. head to office depot &amp; officemax for discounts both in-store and online.pro-tip: your local 99 cents store(s) can also be a jackpot of findings for these generic must-haves.hold off on these itemskeep in mind that right now, stores will try to lure you in to stocking up on all your b2s needs, but not offering the best savings across all categories. if you can, wait to buy these items later.backpacks, lunch kits and organizersif you can hold off on backpacks, lunch kits, and fancy organizer/binder purchases until the week after school starts, the remnants of b2s stock will be on clearance then; however, it will be pretty picked-over,says krista fabregas, retail and shopping analyst, fit small business. if you find the must-have item for a good price during the run-up in august, buy it then, as it likely wont hang around for clearance. if youre not picky though, its best to wait until stores are desperate to clear out remaining stock.fall clothingb2s fall and winter stock will be on sale in october when holiday stock starts to arrive  just when the air starts to get nippy, notes fabregas. this holds true for apparel and department stores, too.try to curate a versatile wardrobe by giving them some layering options to take them into fall, adds skirboll. look to retailers like macys, sears and old navy for discounts on all types of clothing.student tech gear that isnt urgentyes, you can find awesome savings on tech right now, as noted, but if tablets and laptops can wait, youll find the best deals on new products in fall.if youre not in a rush for a major tech buy, you can grab more tablet and laptop deals in late september or october, says fabrega. this is when older tech gear hits clearance as new stock arrives for holiday shopping. you can also keep an eye out for the best deals on amazon and other online sellers using price-checker apps like honey, keepa, and camelcamelcamel. or try shopsavvy, which lets you scan in-store items and compare deals in nearby stores and through online sellers before you make your buy.\"calculatorshudson adds that you should also wait to buy calculators during black friday and cyber monday if you can hold off.consider refurbished techtheres no pressure to buy a brand new computer, when a refurbished one can be just as excellent, and, if youre buying from a top electronics store like apple, will look and work as good as new (i bought a refurbished mac last year and it had that very distinct new-tech smell and had i not known it had been refurbished, i would not have been able to tell the difference).look for certified used products from a reputable seller to ensure you get a good item for a good deal, says hudson. shopping manufacturer-refurbished goods can save you almost half the price.shop during tax-free holidays, if applicablefor those who live in states with tax-free [holidays], i recommend taking advantage of those shopping days, says hudson.heres a comprehensive list of the tax-free holidays by state. note that not all participating states are including b2s-related items, (while others did, but the dates have passed). if youre in one of the following states, you still have time.connecticut: clothing and footwear - $100, from august 19-25maryland: clothing and footwear  $100, from august 12-18texas: clothing, backpacks and school supplies - $100, from august 10-12

its no secret that there are many pathways to success. if youre looking towards a leadership role, you probably have a certain trajectory in mind  one strongly guided by the wisdom passed down from parents, bosses and mentors. but what if one day you decided to make a sharp left turn from the conventional path? it could be a big mistake. but it could also be the best move youve ever made.these five female ceos are thankful they ignored some sage pieces of advice and took the road less traveled. heres a look at some of their more successful counter-intuitive moves, and some great advice if youre considering a similar path yourself.i was told not to negotiate, but i did it anyway.beth gerstein, co-founder and co-ceo of brilliant earth, an ethically sourced bridal and fine jewelry companywhen i got my first job offer, my colleges career center told me not to negotiate. i immediately went and did it anyway, and it paid off. i got more than the company had originally offered, plus a signing bonus. my thinking was, whats the worst that can happen? they may say no, but at least i asked. of course i went in with a reasonable figure in mind  i knew if i went in there with something three times the going rate, they would roll their eyes. i was keeping in mind that although i wanted more money, i also wanted to foster a long-term relationship.her tip: when you ask for more money, try to sound comfortable in your request  not too bold, and not overly pleading. and when possible, take a data-driven approach, and look at the going rate for your position, and your salary relative to your peers, if you know it.i went from big public companies to a small, privately-held one.diane dietz, president and ceo of rodan + fields, a skincare and cosmetics companymy background is big public companies. when i thought about my next role, i only considered those same big public companies. in many ways, i was on a set track  i started at procter &amp; gamble and then moved to a very large retailer, and i took it for granted that my next step would be either the #1 or #2 position at a huge corporation. but then i got a call from rodan + fields, and i thought, i can stay on my traditional course, or i can try something new, at a company founded by women, and run by women. almost instantly, i felt ignited by the prospect of moving in this direction, that this company would fit really well with whats important to me. but it isnt something i ever would have predicted early on in my career.her tip: on your journey there will be multiple stops. be prepared to explore a lot of different things, and to deviate from your original plan. at many points, there will be experiences that cause you to ask, am i in the right place? flip the script and ask instead, what can i learn from this?rather than acting tough, i decided to own my own vulnerabilitychrista quarles, ceo of opentable, the worlds largest provider of online restaurant reservationsover the years, i learned to step up and say, hey, im not great at this thing, but i am great at this other thing. when you own your vulnerability, you become the most powerful person in the room, because youre owning the story of your weakness. no one else can take it from you. i used to believe that if i told people i wasnt good at something, they would pounce on me. but thats just not true. the best thing you can do is to bring self-awareness to your narrative about who you are and what you bring to table. everyone wants to work with someone who knows where theyre weak and where theyre strong. if someone has no perception of where they need work, its going to be really hard to get them to a better place.her tip: often the first step to self-awareness is getting 360-degree feedback from people you trust. ask them to be candid, and remember that all feedback is a gift. once you understand where some of your weaknesses are, get on a path to making them better.i turned down a full-time job offer from a prominent firm.megan driscoll, ceo and founder of evolvemkd public relations firmwhen i was graduating from the university of chicago, i had no idea what i wanted to do. i knew i was good with people, but wasnt quite sure what job that translated into. the economy was bad at the time, so i found myself going on a lot of informational interviews. one of them was at edelman public relations firm, and i loved everything i learned about the possibilities of a career in that field. soon after, i got my first full-time job offer from a prominent wealth management firm, but i turned it down to take an internship at edelman. my parents  and many of my friends  thought i was nuts for taking the internship over the job, but that internship is what set me up in a career i love, and put me on the path to owning my own business.her tip: what i always tell people is that you are the only steward of your career (and your life) so definitely listen and be open to advice, but also, trust your gut. only you know what the right career path is for you, and what its going to take to be successful at it.i chose to compete with giants.janice bryant howroyd, founder ceo of the actone group, the largest woman-owned human resources solutions firm in the countryearly on in my career, i had to learn how to compete with well-funded public companies, which are largely run by men, and i did that as a woman and as an african-american. i learned that no matter who you are, success all comes from the same place  from attitude and focus. in other words, you get results from where you place your attention. if you want something bad enough, you can make it happen. but you have to be in constant communication with yourself, checking in to make sure that youre on the right path, and that youre freshly motivated every day.her tip: when youre having doubts about yourself or your business, the best thing you can do is find a quiet space and listen to your inner voice. no matter who you call god, call god every day and listen. knowing yourself is so important, because only then will you know what youre truly capable of.with kathryn tugglemore career advice from ceoshow to get promoted  according to five powerhouse female ceoshow to find your voice at work (and use it), according to these female ceoshow one ceo increased his companys success through \"the power of doing nothing at all\"how working for a bad boss made these women betterwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

for some parents, back-to-school time feels like a mad rush to find school supplies and clothes, fill out paperwork and sign up for extracurricular activities. theres a solution: ask children to help. yes, really: it reduces stress and encourages children to be engaged.when we involve our kids in back to school preparation we help them take more responsibility for their own learning and education this school year, dr. deborah gilboa, a child development expert, told today parents. also, they are much less likely to feel shocked and betrayed on the first day of school when they realize summer vacation is over.gilboa offers an age-by-age guide on what children can do to help make back-to-school preparation run smoothly.preschool and kindergarteneven the youngest students can help make back-to-school planning easier.they can shop around their own house for school supplies, she said. some of those things you have to go out and buy new, but some of it you have around the house.while having preschool and kindergarten students find supplies helps parents craft a shopping list, it also gives parents a chance to start teaching their children important lessons.it is great for kids to learn to re-use and recycle and to start to gather their own stuff, gilboa explained.whats more, it can be a way for parents to practice skills with their children. say the supply list asks for five pencils, but the child only finds three. parents can work with them to practice simple subtraction.another way preschoolers and kindergarteners can get involved is by having a day where they wake up as if they are going to school.they can have a practice morning and come tell you what they think, gilboa said. i would not suggest doing that the actual first day of school.first to fourth gradestudents in early elementary school can also shop for school supplies in the house and have a practice morning. but they can help with a few more tasks. take lunch. starting around age 9, children should pack their own lunches  with a little guidance.you can involve younger elementary students in ... a plan for making their own lunch, she said. you have to come up with the healthy options so it is not just birthday cake and cheetos.they can also go through their clothes and organize them. gilboa suggests parents ask their children to make three piles: one pile of clothes that fit and they will wear. one pile of clothes that fit but they will not wear. and one pile that doesnt fit.you are going to go through those piles and make sure they were right. make sure they didnt keep something with so many holes in it, she said. that gets you started with the back-to-school clothes shopping.children can also read ads and look for deals.have them clip coupons for school supplies, she said.and, they can review their class list and see who they want to befriend. that way parents can set up playdates prior to school starting.this helps them feel like they are going to be socially comfortable, gilboa said.fifth to eighth gradewhile fifth to eighth graders can do everything that younger children can, giving middle schoolers a budget to spend on school supplies and clothes teaches them how to manage money.give them a budget, gilboa said. we have x amount of money to spend on back to school clothes  make a list of what you would like.also ask them to create a list of foods they want in lunches and ask them to plan when they are going to pack them. is it in the morning? immediately after coming home from school?set up the expectations, gilboa said.middle school students can create their own schedule for completing homework and sleep and wake times. during the discussion parents should ask questions to help guide their children through the process.whats more, middle schoolers should fill out all forms completely except for their parents signatures.high schoolhigh school students should be planning as much as possible from lunches to homework to school shopping to studying to job schedules.for high school, you just give your kids a checklist, gilboa said. put them in the role of being the decision maker, who needs to inform you, their boss, what the plan is.this article originally appeared on today parents. more parenting hackswant compassionate, bully-proof kids? do thisrealistic screen-time solutions for kids and their parentshow being a boss makes me a better momwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

for a few years now, ive been asked by seasoned writers, how do you write as much as you do? or, how do you come up with so many story ideas? of course, there are tons of ways i keep myself organized, but the simplest thing ive done to boost my productivity stems back to a suggestion i first read and reported about in 2014, and have adopted permanently ever since. i discovered the tip in a reddit ask me anything (ama) with psychologist dan ariely, a longtime professor of psychology and behavioral economics at duke university.in response to a question about his favorite ways to apply elements of his work to daily life, ariely said, one of the saddest mistakes in time management is the propensity of people to spend the two most productive hours of their day on things that dont require high cognitive capacity (like social media). if we could salvage those precious hours, most of us would be much more successful in accomplishing what we truly want. when another questioner asked when those hours were, ariely claimed, generally people are most productive in the morning. the two hours after becoming fully awake are likely to be the best.i turned the advice over in my mind. at the time, i was working more hours than ever as a freelance writer, but they were seemingly all over the place. i didnt work with much intention, but basically tackled whatever seemed to be on the top of the pile when i woke up  maybe an email from my editor, a story i needed to read over before filing, or a pitch id want to jot down. what if i tried a something new, arranging my schedule more systematically?3 steps to optimizing your schedulesince that ama, i have adopted a few time-management tricks based on arielys piece of advice, and used them to rearrange my day with more intention.select one challenging task from you to-do list the night before. i started deciding on the piece of writing im going to work on before i go to bed at night, so morning guesswork doesnt set me back.jump right into your most mentally challenging task (after a cup of coffee). because the act of writing takes the most cognitive energy to accomplish, i spend my most productive hours  first thing in the morning  writing. i always set my coffee pot at night, and sit down at my computer immediately when i wake up.stack the rest of your to-do list. i also stack my tasks from most to least difficult, so, as my executive energy wanes into the afternoon, my work is getting progressively easier to complete anyway.whenever i stay on this schedule and work in this fashion, i get much more done than when i need to work in another way  like when i need to push writing back in order to accommodate an early-morning phone interview or a personal errand. the effectiveness of this trick makes total sense, according to dona matthews, phd, a developmental psychologist and author of several books, including beyond intelligence: secrets for raising happily productive kids. you are more productive when you spend your best hours on your most demanding tasks, like writing, she says. we have a limited window of highly productive cognitive energy, and if we use that window for low-demand tasks like social media or laundry, we dont have it left for the high-demand tasks wed like to accomplish.lark or night owl? finding your most productive hoursthose earliest morning hours worked best for me in terms of productivity, but matthews says that might not be everyones most productive time. researchers have identified highly variable circadian rhythms, roughly grouping people into larks or morning people and night owls, those who do their best work at night, with lots of sub-varieties, she says. while i am seemingly a lark, the best hours for productivity and alertness are probably not universal, according to matthews. most people know when their most productive hours are, but trial and error can help you learn if you dont know yet, she explains.even if you think you know your top hours for productivity, you might still want to track when youre accomplishing various tasks most efficiently. matthews says shes learned different times of the day are best for different parts of her work. morning is my best time for writing nonfiction, or editing, but i find late afternoon a good time for working on fiction  or at least the creative or inventive aspects of that, she says. likewise, i naturally seem to gravitate towards different tasks at different times of day. while i spend my morning writing, drafting and structuring stories, i typically transition to more creative work like brainstorming and drafting new pitches in the afternoon. after 3 p.m., i might give an interview with a podcaster for my new book or respond to blog comments, but i dont have any more mental energy to spare for the day. normally, if im productive in the morning, i dont need it.after adopting these productivity hacks years ago, ive accomplished more than i ever used to in the same amount of time, and rarely work into the evening hours. so, as a bonus, this trick also means ive gained more free time than ever, which i can spend driving to see my family, going for scenic walks in the afternoon, and actually making my happy hour plans with my friends. if you identify when your most productive two hours are and build your schedule around them, you, too, may notice that you develop a rhythm for the day that lends itself to your best work  and you may even gain back a few precious hours of free time while youre at it.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to build a work wardrobe on a budget10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

according to a report by javelin strategies, u.s. residents lost $16.8 billion to fraudsters in 2017, and the number of victims increased 8 percent over the previous year.unfortunately, identity thieves are getting smarter, which means that consumers have to be even more vigilant when it comes to protecting their personal information and their financial well-being. thieves are launching more complex schemes, but consumers also dont think twice about many common practices that put their data  and their money  at risk.its easy to be cavalier with your passwords and personal information  and to believe identity theft wont happen to you. here are six common habits to break right now.you use the same simple password for multiple online accountssecurity experts agree that using weak passwords is one of the most common bad habits that puts consumers at high risk for identity theft. data shows that people tend to reuse passwords for multiple logins despite the security risk, and often these passwords are simple words or phrases that themselves contain personally identifiable information. this means that if a bad actor gets ahold of one password, he or she suddenly has access to your bank accounts, your gmail history and your amazon cart.shockingly, password and 123456 are still among the most popular passcodes. to secure your accounts, skip the easy-to-guess options and the basic requirements to tack on a number and capital letter  instead, use a random password generator to create unique, complex passwords for each account, change your passwords often, and keep track of your logins with a password manager app.password recovery systems are another gaping security hole, says lance cottrell, chief scientist at ntrepid, a privacy and security-focused technology company. a thief can easily find your mothers maiden name or the city where you got married by browsing your facebook profile. make your responses to these questions just as difficult to guess as your actual passwords.often the answers [to password recovery questions] can be found through social media, cottrell says. people should make it a habit to lie outrageously and uniquely for each website, keeping track of the lies in a password manager.you avoid checking your banking and credit card statements on a regular basischecking your account balances isnt always fun, but not doing so means you could miss fraudulent transactions that indicate your identity has been stolen. you should scan your account statements and your credit report frequently for purchases you didnt make and lines of credit you didnt request.reviewing your bank accounts, credit card statements and credit reports regularly wont necessarily prevent identity theft, but it will help you catch it early before you incur too much damage, says brianna jensen, an identity theft expert with consumer security site asecurelife.credit card fraud is one of the most common types of identity theft. you are eligible for a free report from each of the three major credit bureaus once a year, so request one every few months in addition to reviewing other financial statements at least weekly.you overshare on social media and dont check your privacy settingssocial media is rife with scammers who take advantage of weak privacy settings to lure you in. even if you dont fall victim to a phony facebook lottery, thieves can still glean personal information from your supposedly private profiles. geotagged photos, birthday posts, and childhood throwbacks give savvy criminals answers to those oversimplified security questions and generally help them impersonate you.dont share any information with sites unless you are comfortable with that information being posted on a postcard and sent to your own house, says ron schlecht, managing partner at cybersecurity firm btb security.cut thieves off by tightening your privacy settings and limiting what you post. check your settings every time a social media platform releases an update or asks you to agree to a revised privacy policy.you send sensitive information via email or unsecure messaging servicesnigerian princes arent the only ones scamming consumers through email. if you include account numbers, attach sensitive documents or simply write things youd never share publicly, you open yourself up to identity theft. even if you have a strong password or use two-factor authentication to protect your own account, your messages are only as secure as those you send your information to.plus, when you delete messages from facebook, slack or email, that data still lives in a place thats accessible to thieves who can intercept or hack into accounts or servers.our inbox, sent and deleted folders are treasure troves of sensitive information about ourselves and our family, says mike fleck, vice president of security at covata, which provides data security solutions for businesses. avoid sending account numbers and sensitive documents via unencrypted messages.you rarely update your apps and device softwarefrequent app updates arent just there to annoy you. they actually patch critical security holes that would otherwise leave your data vulnerable to hackers and viruses.what might have been secure enough yesterday is no longer secure enough today  sometimes because bugs have been discovered and sometimes because technologies have evolved, says gary mcgraw, vice president of security technology at software security company synopsys.if your devices have an automatic update setting, enable it. and if you get a notification that a new software version is available, address it immediately.you give away too much information  especially when you are in publicthere are very few situations that actually require you to provide any kind of personally identifiable information in public or to someone you dont know, so be wary of anyone who requests this.for example, a telemarketer calls and asks you to confirm your name and address. you have no way to verify that persons credentials, which means you just gave your name and location to a stranger, which they can then use to piece together your personal profile. other situations are less sinister but just as risky: you dont think twice about providing your credit card number to confirm an appointment or stating your social security number for your doctors office over the phone, but you never know who is listening nearby.before you give away any information, whether in person, over the phone or online, make sure that its absolutely necessary to do so and that your data will be communicated or transmitted securely.experts say that data breaches, hack and identity theft are an all-too-common  and often unavoidable  reality, so consumers should take steps to avoid becoming victims whenever possible.the most dangerous habit a person can have is to be too trusting, says mark gazit, ceo of data analytics provider thetaray. whenever youre dealing with your financial information and personal data, you must assume that you will be hacked.more ways to protect your datahow to avoid scammers this tax seasonhow to protect yourself from identity theft (besides freezing your credit)heres exactly what you need to protect yourself from increasingly competent identity thieveswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

according to the 2016 national health interview survey from the centers for disease control, only a little more than half of american adults aged 18 and over met the physical activity guidelines for aerobic physical activity, while just over 20 percent of adults met the physical activity guidelines for both aerobic and muscle-strengthening activity.so whats our excuse for not being physically active? time, says michael joyner, m.d., an exercise researcher at the mayo clinic. workout plans that require a time commitment can seem like a bridge too far  thus folks get discouraged before they even start, joyner says.heather milton, ms, senior exercise physiologist at the sports performance center at nyu langone in new york city says the time excuse can also be code for im not ready. you actually walk someone through their schedule day-to-day, and realize their barriers are really not being mentally motivated or ready. they probably have more time than they think, they just arent at a point where they feel they can prioritize exercise in their daily schedule, milton says.thats where 5-to-10-minute workout apps can come in handy. as we recently reported, even five minutes of intense, sweat-inducing, heart rate-raising exercise can contribute to keeping you healthy and getting you in shape.milton says, whenever you can fit it in, breaking up long spells at your desk or otherwise sedentary time with short bursts of intense exercise can improve your cardiovascular health and lower your risk of diabetes. plus, it can do wonders for your workday. the more often you can break up sedentary time, the better, she says. steve jobs always had walking meetings. exercise boosts blood flow to your brain and neurotransmitters that improve your mood.and, as with almost everything these days, theres an app for that. to keep you from wasting yet another day, we both consulted a study conducted by the american college of sports medicine (acsm) and tried out 5 fitness apps with decent workouts that take ten minutes or less.sworkitthe popular sworkit workout app is well-designed and promises the workout you want with the time you have. approved in the acsm study, it allows you to customize each program according to your goals, has seven-minute and five-minute workout options to keep your workouts brief, and allows you to skip exercises you dont want to do.duration: 5 and 7 minutescost: offers a month-long free trial and the option of paying $10 per month with quarterly billing cycle or $79.99 per year. available at apple app store and google play.streaks workout appbasic yet effective (your guide is an icon), the streaks workout app cycles through customizable floor exercise routines that raise your heartrate while only requiring your own body weight. workouts are timed in 6- (quick), 12- (everyday), 18- (tough) and 30- (pain) minute increments. it tracks which workout you used, how long it took you to get through the routine and gives you the option to time the exercise itself. for all fitness levels.duration: 6, 12, 18 and 30 minutescost: $3.99 at the apple app storebutt workout and fitnessembarrassed by public glute bridges? if youre out to tighten your tush, this app runs you through a series of booty-firming exercises in just seven minutes (it offers the booty shaper and the butt blaster 15-minute options, too). an animated, ponytailed icon demonstrates then times each move. a voice-over encourages your progress. all you need is some floor space and comfy clothes.duration: 7 minutescost: free at the apple app storejohnson &amp; johnson official 7 minute workout appthis incredibly popular workout app ranked on the acsm study and was designed by chris jordan, director of exercise physiology at the johnson &amp; johnson human performance institute. it promises a high-intensity cardio, customizable circuit workout to get the most out of every minute. follow along with jordan, track and monitor your progress  all you need is a wall or chair to do your thing. for beginners and fitness junkies alike.duration: 7 minutescost: free at the apple app store and google playseven app by perigeethis app gamifies the app workout experience, if you will, by motivating users with lives and organs to lose if you skip a day. it offers a lot of variety  along with your fitness level, you can choose between floor work, pilates-based moves, stretches and working your lower body. all you need is a chair, a wall and your own body weight to do each exercise for 30-seconds with 10 seconds of rest between each move.duration: 7 minutescost: offers a 7-day free trial, otherwise its $79.99 per year. available at apple app store and google play.try these fitness routines10 core exercises that are better for your back (and body) than crunches5 exercises you can perform anywhere, anytime5 exercises that will strengthen your back and reduce pain8 exercises trainers never do (and what to do instead)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as tempting as it may be to hit chipotle or panera at lunchtime, brown-bagging it can have big payoffs. in one survey, people said they spend about $20 per week on lunch, amounting to more than one grand per year. factor in the pricier chains, dining out more than a couple of times per week, or living in a big city, and you could be spending much more. setting your budget aside, it seems pretty obvious that frequently picking up lunch is less healthy and more costly than preparing meals at home, and science backs this up.meal prep your lunches and you could be on your way to a healthier, leaner body. in one study among more than 100,000 participants, meal planning practices were tied to improvements in diet quality, increased diet variety and was linked to lower body weight. \"one of the greatest benefits of meal planning is that it leads to healthier eating habits,\" says jessica levinson, rdn, culinary nutrition expert and author of \"52-week meal planner.\" planning in advance allows you to put together balanced meals and ensure you have the ingredients to make them instead of relying on takeout, fast food or prepared foods, which are often higher in calories, sodium, added sugar, and saturated fat, she explains.how to meal plan like a promeal planning isnt as daunting as it sounds. spend just 10 or 15 minutes mapping out your meals, jot down what you need and head to the store. thats it.levinson suggests stocking up on convenience foods to make planning and prepping easier. canned fish (tuna, salmon, sardines, anchovies), canned beans (no- or low-sodium preferred), boxed soups (such as tomato or carrot ginger soup from pacific, imagine, or trader joes), microwavable whole grains (including brown rice and quinoa), and nut butters (or nut-free butters) are among her must-haves. her picks for the fridge and freezer include eggs, frozen whole grain waffles, ravioli and tortellini, herb pastes, shredded and sliced cheese, veggie burgers, frozen or refrigerated shelled edamame beans, hummus and other bean spreads, yogurt, cooked beets, and cooked lentils.use seasonings and other staples you already have, or create a list of those youll turn to time and again, and make sure to pick them up on your next grocery haul. \"one of the benefits of meal planning is that it can save you money by only purchasing what you need and by basing your plan on the price of groceries and whats on sale,\" she says.a weeks worth of healthy lunches on the cheapfor just under $20, you can enjoy five, low-fuss meals that are high in flavor and nutrition. to help you ease into bringing lunch, ive created a blueprint lunch plan and shopping list based on the tips above. the total investment: $19.35. so put that $20 bucks (or $40, or whatever the number may be) you spend picking up lunch toward your vacation fund, paying off debt, a monthly massage or another worthy investment, and brown-bag it instead.note: ive assumed you have some staple seasonings and condiments at home. prices were based on a suburban market in norwalk, ct, and may reflect a weekly sale.shopping list1 5 oz. can solid white albacore tuna in water $1.491 dozen large, cage-free eggs $2.29frozen riced cauliflower $2.99frozen brown rice $1.50frozen shelled edamame $2.691 package romaine hearts $3.001 avocado $1.001 package matchstick carrots $2.091 pint grape tomatoes $2.501 red onion $1.29advanced meal prep:chop the red onion and store in a re-usable container. beyond lunches, you can use the onion to add fresh flavor to other meals throughout the week. think: with egg scrambles, lox breakfasts or cooked in roasted potatoes. keep some of the pieces bigger if you want to use them in kebabs.wash, dry, and chop the romaine, reserving 4 lettuce leaves to make wraps. you can store both the chopped lettuce and the pre-washed leaves in a container with paper towels, which helps keep them fresh. change out the paper towels during the week if theyre damp.boil five eggs. theyll stay fresh in the shell for up to a week. pro tip: boil extra eggs to enjoy as snacks or with breakfast.meal 1: california tuna saladto 2 cups chopped romaine, add  can tuna, one boiled egg, halved, and 1/4 avocado, sliced. top with  c. matchstick carrots and 5 grape tomatoes, halved. drizzle with olive oil and vinegar or dressing of choice. (keep dressing in a separate container until ready to eat.)meal 2: avocado and edamame rice bowlheat  c. brown rice in microwave according to package directions. then heat 1 c. riced cauliflower. when heated, combine the cauliflower with the brown rice, season with salt and pepper to taste, and set aside in a food storage container. heat  c. edamame according to package instructions. place  c. matchstick carrots, 1-2 tsp. red onions, 5 grape tomatoes,  avocado, diced, and one boiled egg, halved, in a separate container along with the edamame. (a compartmentalized container, like a bento box, would work well here.) at lunchtime, warm up the rice mixture and top with the fresh (cold) toppings. drizzle with vinaigrette to serve.meal 3: tuna salad in lettuce leavesheat  c. edamame according to package instructions. mix remaining  can tuna (from day 1) with edamame, 1-2 tsp. chopped onion, 1 tbsp. mayonnaise, and 1 tsp. dijon mustard. season with salt and pepper to taste. optional: fresh dill, which could also be used on the turmeric egg salad (meal 4, below). place tuna salad in a food storage container and top with  avocado, diced. bring the 4 lettuce leaves, wrapped in a paper towel to transport. at lunch time, scoop the tuna salad with some avocado and divide among the four lettuce leaves. alternatively, chop or break up the lettuce and eat as a salad.meal 4: turmeric egg saladchop 2 boiled eggs and 1 boiled egg white. mix with 1 tbsp. mayo,  tsp. ground turmeric, 1 tsp. chopped onion, and salt and pepper to taste. serve the egg salad atop 2 cups chopped romaine mixed with  cup matchstick carrots, 5 grape tomatoes, halved, and  avocado, diced. optional: whole grain crackers (from your pantry), which you can crumble on top (instead of croutons) or enjoy on the side.meal 5: cauliflower fried ricerecipe notes: make the night before or allow yourself about 10 extra minutes in the morning.heat  c. brown rice in microwave according to package directions. then heat 1 c. riced cauliflower with  c. frozen edamame; when heated, combine the mixture with the brown rice. in a skillet, saute  c. matchstick carrots. when tender, place in the bowl with the cauliflower mixture. whisk two eggs and scramble in the same skillet. when done, toss the scrambled eggs with the cauliflower mixture along with about 1 tsp. sesame oil and 2 tsp. reduced-sodium soy sauce. optional: add chopped peanuts or cashews, if desired. at lunchtime, re-heat.just like any other new skill you attempt, meal planning may take a bit of practice. be patient and dont give up. no one learns a new language in a day! with each try, youll get better and better, and youll start noticing benefits, like quicker trips to the grocery store, an easier time sticking to your budget, a better variety of food to enjoy and perhaps feeling more energetic and better in your clothes.more healthy recipe ideas5 healthier bowls of ramen to make tonight13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonighthealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for you12 better-for-you summer barbecue recipeswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

shalane flanagan made history last fall when she became the first american woman in 40 years to win the new york city marathon. while dedicated training certainly played the biggest role in her victory, flanagan also points to diet as a key part of her success. for those wanting to mimic her approach, shes sharing it as co-author of \"run fast, cook fast, eat slow,\" the follow-up cookbook to \"run fast, eat slow,\" both written with fellow runner elyse kopecky.the new cookbook joins two other runner-authored recipe collections, all debuting in the next couple of months. \"the runners world vegetarian cookbook,\" by heather mayer irvine, and jen hansards \"simple green meals\" both offer up a runners perspective on healthy eating but can easily serve as eating guides for any type of athlete or fitness buff. runners love to eat and are forever seeking out fast, easy ways to do so. this trio of cookbooks delivers the goods.run fast, cook fast, eat slowshalane flanagan and elyse kopecky first met as cross-country teammates at the university of north carolina. fast friends, the two stayed in touch post-college even as their paths diverged. what later began as a simple conversation around their real food approaches evolved into the cookbook sensation \"run fast, eat slow,\" released in 2016.something of a cult following emerged, with fan-favorite recipes like superhero muffins and kale-radicchio salad with farro, becoming staples in runner diets. it became clear that flanagan and kopecky needed to write a second book. we originally didnt have plans for a second book, says kopecky, but we heard from so many people who wanted more recipes like those in the first book that we decided to go for it.\"run fast, eat slow\" delivered to readers a collection of recipes centered on real, whole foods versus the often calorically restrictive, light and lean type foods to which so many runners had become accustomed. the new cookbook follows that same approach, yet turned up the prep-to-table speed on many of the recipes. many of the recipes in the second book contain fewer ingredients, says kopecky. we also made them more budget conscious  oat flour instead of almond flour, for instance.readers will also find more of the same types of recipes that made the first cookbook so popular. there are three varieties of super hero muffins, says kopecky, and more versions of the salads that were so popular first go around.this book also serves as a primer for those newer to the kitchen. instead of strict recipes in some cases, we give overviews of how to pull something together so that readers can learn from our ideas, kopecky says.look for \"run fast, cook fast, eat slow\" on aug. 14.the runners world vegetarian cookbookheather mayer irvine isnt a vegetarian, but she is a runner, and a speedy one at that. as the former food and nutrition editor at runners world, she regularly encountered runners who successfully fueled their endeavors with a plant-based diet. more than that, however, she buys into the idea that all runners can benefit from more plants in their lives. so when the opportunity to share plant-based recipes with a wider audience arose, irvine jumped.the message is importantthis isnt a one lifestyle versus another approach, she says. but it is an approach to bring more plant-based, nutrient-dense foods into runners lives.as a professional writer/editor, mother to a new baby, and runner, irvine understands the busy lives of runners and weaves that appreciation into the recipes in her book. we often stray away from healthy cooking because we get caught up with everything else, she says. but when were training for races, its important to fuel our bodies with the right foods.with that in mind, the cookbook features recipes that health-conscious readers can for the most part make in under 30 minutes. irvine opens the book making a case for more plants in a runners diet and follows up with guidelines for vegetarian and vegan athletes. recommendations like eat all the colors, and fat is your friend: dont avoid it but make smart choices, are included in her advice. after a guide to the recipe key, its on to the simple and nutritious recipes themselves.irvine breaks the chapters into categories like breakfast, smoothies and drinks, main dishes, and salads, among others. knowing that runners like to snack, she covers those, too, with fun and unique recipes like bee pollen popcorn, coconut curry snack mix, and chipotle-sweet potato hummus.throughout the cookbook, irvine shares recipes from elite runners like deena kastor, matt llano and shalane flanagan. the forward is penned by scott jurek, one of ultra-runnings biggest success stories, himself a vegan athlete. scott is a legend who sticks with a fresh, plant-based approach, so im thrilled that he is part of the book, irvine says.the runners world vegetarian cookbook will be available oct. 9.simple green mealswhat do you want to do? was the simple question jen hansards husband ryan asked her. simple as it was, she had no answer, but it started her journey of discovery and passion for healthy living. now an accomplished ultra-marathoner, mother and author of the popular simple green smoothies web site and cookbook, hansard has authored a follow-up in simple green meals.before diving into the plant-based recipes, hansard offers up her story and philosophy on wellness and fulfillment, and teaches readers how to embrace a healthy lifestyle. a find your passion worksheet gives readers a chance to make their own discoveries. more than anything, though, hansard stresses progress over perfection.the recipes that follow are a reflection of her approach to living and eating, and she shares her simple eight ingredient list as the basis for all 100 of the creations. fruits, leafy greens, whole grains, legumes, nuts and seeds, dark chocolate, and healthy fats all make the cut. dairy, refined sugar, processed foods, gluten, meat and caffeine, among others, are all pointedly absent.hansard says that the cookbook was a natural next step in her journey. green smoothies were a breakthrough for me, she says. eventually i found myself craving salads, soups, and all kinds of flavors found in foods, so i started exploring ways to make nourishing recipes.the resultant cookbook shares her favorite recipes for breakfasts, snacks, soups, salads, sides, main dishes and desserts. breakfast toast six ways, is a quick and simple way to pack nourishment into the start of the day, as are quinoa corn muffins. main dish recipes include thai lettuce wraps, plant-powered cacao chili, and mushroom fajitas.hansard says that in todays society, food has to be simple and tasty. to me its about taking fresh ingredients and making quick meals, she says. when i eat this way, im fueling my passions. i dont think plants have to be boring.simple green meals will be available sept. 11.more running tips and trickswhat you need to know before running outdoorshow to create a training plan to reach any workout goalhow to recover from a tough workoutthe right way to train for a marathonwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

i read a quote the other day that said those who are truly successful dont need a vacation away from work because their work is their passion.i respectfully disagree  with this quote, and with others who have the misguided belief that if you do what you love, vacation becomes obsolete. vacation isnt about escaping your job; its about making you better at it.but project: time offs latest research shows that some places in the united states are better than others at realizing this. the survey found that the states who are the worst at taking vacation are montana, delaware and rhode island, while those in colorado, virginia and arizona take the most time off. in colorado, the average employee takes 20.3 days of vacation  the most of any state and well ahead of the number two state, virginia, where the average is 18.9 days. but in montana, residents take the least amount of vacation at 16.3 days on average, followed by delaware with 16.5 days.and its not just taking those days, its how you use them that matters, too. our report, the \"state of american vacation 2018,\" found that workers who use the majority of their vacation days for travel are significantly happier than those who travel less or not at all.its something virginians understand. while the state is number two for the days used, it is number one for days spent traveling, with 12.2 days committed to getting away, compared to eight nationally. on the other end of the spectrum is south dakota, where employees spend a national low of 4.3 of their vacation days traveling and are also below average for days used. in case you think hard-working south dakotans had a leg up with all that time in the office, it was employees in virginia who were more likely to report receiving a recent raise and/or bonus than those in south dakota.on the same note, missourians take more time off than the average american, but only five of those days are used for travel vacations. they report lower than average happiness with their health and well-being and how they spend their time off.the argument for using more of your vacation days to travelif you love what you do, you should constantly be seeking ways to be better at it, right? and yes, vacation is one of the ways you can better your career. travel offers a new perspective that can inspire a creative breakthrough. and in todays economy, where innovative thinking is often more critical to a companys success than producing widgets, the employee with ideas can rise quickly. here are a few other reasons to work some travel into your schedule:better problem solving skills. vacation provides time for the brain to breathe and allows space to help solve problems. this is especially true when you step outside of your familiar daily routine and get away. there are countless examples of a vacation resulting in a eureka moment. from starbucks howard shultz finding vision for the company while strolling around italy in 1983 to instagrams kevin systrom taking a walk on the beach that inspired the idea of filters for the app, taking vacations can help fuel the work we are passionate about.increased job satisfaction. if you have passion for something, it doesnt leave you if you leave town. in fact, americans who travel with a larger share of their vacation time are more than twice as likely to say they are extremely happy with their job  the intense kind of happiness that would be most closely associated with being passionate  than those who travel with little or none of their days. not to mention that employees who travel more with their time off are 18 percent more likely to be promoted than those who travel very little.happier outside of the office. life outside of work is better for those who travel more, too. they report being 20 percent happier with their personal relationships and 56 percent happier with their health and well-being than those who travel with little or none of their vacation time.how to take advantage of your paid time offunfortunately, despite the convincing reasons to make that vacation request and indulge your wanderlust, most americans are not traveling much. more than half of us are not using all the time we earn, leading to 705 million vacation days being left on the table by american workers last year alone. far too many americans have the flawed assumption that this is part of our storied work ethic. but we havent always been this way. while we have shown improvement the last three years, the average american took 17.2 days last year, far fewer than the long-term average from 1978-2000 of 20.3 days.a passionate employee is a great thing. but an employee who is passionate to the point of forgoing other parts of her life is on track for burnout. it is time to stop perpetuating the stereotype that vacation is a threat to our professional success when it is more likely to be a driver of it. heres what we can learn from those states where people are putting up that out of office message and getting out of town.plan your time off far in advance. employees who take the time to plan out their vacation days in advance are far more likely than average to use all their earned days off. and the benefits of planning ahead dont stop there: the survey found that planners are happier in every category measured, including relationships, health and well-being, company and their job. planners also reported feeling more supported at work by their boss and coworkers when they take a vacation. get out your calendar or use project: time offs planner to put every last minute of time off to good use.use your vacation days to actually get away. another benefit of planning your time off in advance is being able to plan a trip during those days. while a staycation and your to-do list may be hard to resist, a vacation away from it all is going to have a bigger impact. americans taking all or most of their vacation days to travel are happier, less stressed and more successful.dont assume your boss is against vacation. south dakotan workers are the number one state for fearing they would lose consideration for a raise or promotion if they took time off. but the research shows that this just isnt the case. in fact, to the contrary, \"the state of american vacation 2017\" found that workers who forfeit vacation time are less likely to have received a recent raise or bonus (78% to 84%) or been promoted (23% to 27%) than those who did not. although most workplaces dont talk about vacation, managers are overwhelmingly supportive of their employees taking time off. make sure to give them plenty of notice, avoid peak busy times and prepare your co-workers for your absence.not sure where to go? start with climate. traveling is easier said than done. if youre not sure where to go, start by using climate as a jumping off point. if youre like the residents in west virginia and missouri, lounging on a tropical beach sounds like your ideal getaway, but if youre like the residents of hawaii, you may prefer to shred some snowy hills in a cooler climate. use climate and the activities that leave you feeling relaxed and re-energized to narrow down a location, and then do research on peak times for travel to that destination. by planning in advance, you can book your trip during the off-season and save money.be opportunistic with your remaining days. if you didnt use the days you had hoped to this year, theres still time. while the gold standard for vacation is still a week, consider a few long weekends this fall to explore places that wouldnt be on your typical summer vacation agenda.katie denis leads the project: time off initiative, a national campaign to prove that vacation travel is valuable and necessary for strengthening personal relationships, inspiring creative thinking, improving professional performance, and promoting better health.more travel hacks and tipssave $520 (or more) on your next flight with these 4 airfare hackshow to pack a carry-on (so you dont need to check a bag)how to find the best travel rewards credit card for youwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

i have my share of parenting fails (current struggle: our erratic and lax summer bedtime schedule), but packing a healthy, satisfying lunch for my daughter isnt one of them. i thank my assortment of bento boxes for consistently inspiring me to bring my early-morning a game (an achievement for this decidedly non-morning person).packing lunches seems to scratch a creative itch and with all those perfectly-portioned boxes to fill, it makes it infinitely easier to crank out lunches that are nutritionally balanced and fun to eat  not to mention pretty to look at. (you can see my cucumber turkey boats in the picture below  one of my early bento successes that my daughter still requests to this day.)whether you brown-paper-bag it or use a bento-style lunch box, nbc news betters nutrition columnist, samantha cassetty, rd, agrees that a packed lunch is most often a better way to go: \"packing school lunch puts you in charge of the foods you feed your child, and a meal made at home can be lower in sodium, added sugars and saturated fat than what you might find in a school meal.\"i tapped cassetty, along with dozens of parent friends, to share some of our favorite bags, bins and boxes that you, your kids and even the environment will love.better editors, writers and experts take care to recommend items we really like and hope youll enjoy! just so you know, better does have affiliate relationships. so, while every product is independently selected, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the revenue.lunch bagsfirst things first: the lunch bag. almost all the parents i polled said they let their kids pick out their own lunch bag or lunchbox each year, most often one that features their favorite tv or movie characters, hobbies or animals. make that part of your back-to-school shopping list  and something you can do together. but if youre like me and have a messy kid, try you might to steer them towards something more like this:funkins lunch bag, $19.97 on amazonif youre looking for a lunch box that cleans up quickly, try one of the soft and flexible neoprene lunch bags like this one from funkins  theyre water and stain-resistant, wash and dry quickly and come in a variety of patterns and colors to suit almost any child.buy it here.bento-style boxesrubbermaid lunchblox, $6.99 at amazonfor a bento-style box with a lower price point, the moms and dads i quizzed swear by rubbermaids lunchblox set. the modular containers snap together so you can add or subtract depending whats on the menu that day. added bonus: at less than seven bucks, youll be less likely to fly off the handle if your kids lunch stuff ends up stranded in the lost and found.buy it here. planetbox, $54.99 and $79.99 on amazonwhenever i ask parents to name to their favorite bento-style lunchbox, planetbox is one that consistently ranks at the top of the list. (shout out to my friend nicole for the parent pro tip on this one years ago!) the stainless steel box is slim and sleek, easy to pack, cleans up like a dream in the dishwasher and is virtually indestructible. my daughters planetbox is five years old and still going strong. there are two different options: the rover with five compartments and the shuttle with two compartments. both boxes come with a case and magnets, but you can buy individual items and accessories separately on their web site and amazon.buy it on amazon here. right now, planetbox is offering 25 percent off their lunch products.lunchbots bento trio and cinco, $24.99 and $39.99 at amazonanother fan favorite for both parents and kids alike: lunchbots. these bento-style boxes come in a variety of sizes, including a 3-compartment and a 5-compartment version that are perfect for packing balanced, healthy lunches. like the planetbox, theyre made of stainless steel and easy to clean in the dishwasher. lunchbots fit in most standard lunch boxes and bags.buy it here.omiebox, $39.50 on amazonon sundays, i make big batches of instant pot meals and stash them in the freezer which makes things infinitely easier on hectic mornings. the downside of a hot lunch is the extra side containers i need to pack along with it, making things bulky and heavy. this problem has been solved with the omiebox, which is part bento box, part thermal container. the omiebox comes in six colors and features a stainless steel thermal container to keep hot foods hot and double-insulated boxes to keep cold items fresh.buy it here.reusable sandwich and snack bagsif youre worried about plastic (and even paper) ending up in a landfill  or worse, our oceans  consider buying washable, reusable sandwich and snack bags. here are highly rated picks from our parent panel:lunchskins 2-pack reusable sandwich and snack bags, $10.99 at amazonthese sandwich and snack bags are lightweight and can be washed and dried in the dishwasher along with the dinner dishes.buy it here.garnet hill 2-pack reusable eco snack bags, $12.95 at garnet hillmade of recycled plastic bottles and polyester fabric, these eco-chic snack bags feature a velcro closure to keep snacks fresh.right now, garnet hill is offering 25 percent off kids backpacks, plus a free matching lunch bag.stasher reusable silicone food bag, $11.99 at amazonstashers are non-plastic bags for sandwiches and snacks that provide an air-tight seal and are easy to rinse clean.disposable snack bagsoften, class trips, field days and other events call for lunch, snack and sandwich bags that can be tossed in the trash. here are our favorite parent-approved (and eco-friendly) picks:lunchskins disposable snack bags, $6.99 for 50 on amazonwith fun prints like red apples and blue sharks, these 100 percent recyclable and compostable lunch bags have an adhesive strip that allows you to seal in sandwiches and other food items to keep them fresh. theres even a section on the bag to add a love note or a word of encouragement.buy it here.pack of 2 if you care unbleached sandwich bags, $11.92 at amazonthese unbleached paper bags are perfect for sandwiches and other snacks. they can also be used in the microwave.buy it here.water bottlesplanetbox capsule and booster, $26.95 and $29.95 on amazona big selling feature of the capsule and booster water bottles is an easy-to-use, leak-proof cap. and if you struggle to keep your water bottles clean and mold-free, these bottles are straw-free and feature pieces that can be washed and dried separately in the dishwasher.buy them on amazon here. or right now, planetbox is offering 25 percent off their products.klean kanteen 12oz stainless steel sport bottle, $17.95 on amazonthis 12 oz. sports bottle is made for kids 4+ and is on the smaller side so its a perfect spill-proof bottle  to stash in a lunch bag that wont weigh your child down.buy it here.a lunch packing tip from a nutritionistnow that youve got your gear squared away, what are some good guidelines for packing those lunches? focus on easy-to-eat whole foods  think: whole grain breads and crackers, lean protein and dairy and plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables. and as much you want to \"treat\" your kids, go easy. cassetty says she favors \"whole fruit over juice, and instead of a treat each day, you might consider packing a cookie on occasion and more routinely delighting your little one with special notes.\" were willing to bet a daily pep talk, silly knock-knock joke or a simple \"i love you\" is just the kind of sweetness your kid needs.more tips and tricks from a nutritionisthow to build a better smoothiehealthy trader joes products nutritionists swear bywhats the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?seriously filling salads youll want to eat all summerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

we know pinterest is dangerous for the hours (and hours!) you can spend scrolling and saving for that perfect home youll have someday. but theres another hazard to lusting over the homes featured on it or instagram. nobody ever said you should believe everything you see on the internet, but its awfully hard to tell a beautiful design that will actually work in real life  your life  from one that is completely untethered from reality.when i began re-designing the third floor of our 1890 home  a hoarders lair that time forgot  i fixated on a soaring ceiling, the rustic original beams all exposed. it would be beautiful, i thought.it would be  a very bad idea, according to the friends i shared this plan with.i resisted, but eventually their logic won out over my \"but they do it on pinterest\" argument. i didnt take it well, but the insulation brigade was right. pinterest and instagram still fuel my house makeover dreams, but i try to take a more critical approach now.to reveal some of the worst offenders of the \"only in pinterest\" world, i talked with lauren urbanek, the senior program advocate, center for energy efficiency standards, climate &amp; clean energy program at the natural resources defense council. urbanek weighed in with tips for keeping cool without busting the bank on your utility bill, and she shared some reality checks for some beautiful photos ive collected on pinterest.exposed beamsoh, how we love our exposed beams. theres just something so rustic/industrial/chic about them. they bring so much architectural interest to what could otherwise be a blank expanse of drywall. better still? open it all up, take it to the underside of the roof for a room with waaaay up there ceilings. paint it all black or a soft gray and your place may be the next pinterest star.but living in a building where theres a half inch thick piece of wood between you and outside  of course comes at a cost  to your utility bill and to your comfort as well urbanek said. that wood was never meant to see light of day. heat always wants to travel to where its cooler so if its cooler inside your building  if you have no insulation between your rafters and the roof, the heat or cold is just going to pass right through, she explained.yes, its painful to hear that. theyre beautiful spaces, urbanek said. theyre really stunning but if you want to stay comfortable and not swelter on a 100-degree day then you might have to rethink or come up with a creative way to help the cool stay inside. (we ended up compromising by insulating and drywalling between the rafters in one nook to keep just a few exposed  although that still wasnt ideal for keeping a comfortable temperature in the room.)exposed brickif theres anything we love more than rafters on display its bringing brick out from hiding. theres just something irresistible about that gritty, urban look that has people tearing out drywall and plaster in droves. im among them; when we removed damaged plaster from the mudroom in our 1890 home we found beautiful weathered brick, and left every inch of it exposed. (along with the rafters, for good measure.) the room now conveniently serves as a walk-in freezer in the winter, as its absolutely frigid that time of year.exposed brick is really wonderful, but brick is also not a great insulator in and of itself, urbanek said. you can put your hand up to an exterior wall in the middle of winter and feel cold if its just a layer of brick. consider this: building codes today call for insulation levels of r-19 (the the r-value refers to a materials thermal resistance) or higher on exterior walls, according to north american insulation manufacturers association. even in a house like this thats three bricks thick were lucky if were at r-3. no wonder inside that brick room doesnt feel much different from outside!but dont give up your brick dreams just yet. you may be in luck if the wall youd like to expose is an interior wall. urbanek herself did it in a row house in baltimore built in the late 1800s (and i plan to do it soon on a wall in my kitchen).all the windowsever notice anything missing from the pinterest homes with beautiful banks of windows? often theres not a curtain or shade in sight. and certainly the flood of natural light is wonderful. it may even be that these window enthusiasts live in a temperate climate where its not such a big deal. but for the rest of us? urbanek wondered if many of them are even operable.it doesnt look like a lot are open. theyre pretty but you cant really get a breeze in which is something a window is great for, she said. heres an idea. use windows for what theyre supposed to be used for  unless youre a fan of the greenhouse effect which some of these look like they provide in the summer.granted, window technologies  especially in the higher-end market  have come a long way, urbanek said. but at the end of the day its glass. and thats not as a efficient as wall.skylights can be problematic, too, for anyone looking to keep their energy usage dialed in. same as windows, skylights are [a place] you certainly want to make sure air sealing is tight around them, she said. not installed correctly, a skylight will let air escape what, remember, is a hole in your roof.where are all the ceiling fans?look, ceiling fans arent exactly a social media sharing jackpot. when im sharing photos of our third floor space i try to angle the shot so as to not get the less-than-lovely (albeit new and necessary) ceiling fan. urbanek wonders where all the fans are.i see a lot of pictures of rooms with beautiful light fixtures but not ceiling fans, she said. for me personally i couldnt live without a ceiling fan in the bedroom. the breeze makes a room feel cooler, she explained, and i dont have to bump the ac down really low. even if theyre not as pretty as some of those designer light fixtures, consider installing one if youre in a warmer climate, she urged. and there are some more attractive options than the old wood panels.entry ways are a statement, but what kind?you dont have to look far to see all those imposing entryways across the internet. the really tall foyer in an entryway, its certainly a grand statement, urbanek said. but with tall ceilings youre going to use more energy to heat or cool those spaces, and its not usable space either. these grand foyers are a good reminder, she said, that there are effects on utility bills from design choices.more spending &amp; savings hackshow to spruce up your home on a budgethow to keep your house cool without running up your utility billhow to save more money in 2018want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

last month i found myself drenched in sweat, using all of my mental willpower to push through a 10k race (with a few choice words swirling around my head for the hill-loving course designer). while i usually forgo the hydration stations during races (im not much of a drinker during exercise, and never really feel the need to break up my run), this race was different.the temperature steadily climbed into the high 80s as the race went on, and the inclined course had me dripping with sweat, which was bringing on a headache. every time i stopped at a station i fell back on my typical habit of avoiding sugary beverages, bypassing the neon-colored liquids filling half the cups in favor of plain old h20.while this choice is typically a smart one (after all, liquids are a huge source of unwanted calories and sugar in the standard american diet), according to natalie rizzo, rd, founder of nutrition  la natalie, this situation turns out to be an exception to the rule.for any [strenuous] activity longer than 60 minutes, youre going to want to think about a sports drink, says rizzo. gatorade  or any sports drink  was actually formulated for athletes. we think that theyre not so good for us because a lot of people drink them when their sitting at their desks or theyre not so active, and if thats the case, yes, its too much sugar. but sports drinks are actually good for athletes working out for longer than an hour or who are working out in extreme conditions like extreme heat.when is a sports drink the right choice?my rule of thumb is generally after an hour [of activity], you want to kick in with a sports drink, says rizzo. but this rule varies based on the conditions and how much you sweat.if youre exercising outdoors and are a heavy sweater (like your shirt is soaked in sweat), then reach for a sports drink for any activity lasting more than 30 minutes, advises rizzo. if you are a normal sweater (you sweat, but arent drowning in it), then maybe wait about 45 minutes of activity before reaching for a sports drink in this extreme heat.and sports drinks arent only a smart choice for athletes: if you work outside, like a construction worker or landscaper, and are out for hours at a time while on your feet, then you should probably incorporate a sports drink into your diet, says rizzo. for that, i would suggest sipping on it throughout the day with water as well.there are also some physical symptoms you can be aware of that signal you may need to hydrate with something more than water.the white residue on skin is a sign of sodium loss. muscle cramps often mean that you need more potassium. and feeling dizzy, fatigued, headaches or rapid heartbeat can be signs of dehydration, which means you are probably lacking fluid and electrolytes, says rizzo.to prevent these symptoms from popping up in the first place, rizzo recommends sipping a sports drink during exercise, and sipping a bit more after intense exercise. the sports drink will hopefully prevent you from experiencing dehydration and may help hydrate you if you are dehydrated.what to look for on the labelin terms of things to look out for, i would be wary of any artificial flavors or colors and high fructose corn syrup (hfcs), says rizzo. gatorade uses sugar and dextrose, while powerade uses hfcs. many serious and elite runners use a powder to make their own, and many endorse skratch labs because they use a mixture of cane sugar and dextrose as the sugar [source]. both are more natural sugars that get into your bloodstream quickly. \"a 4-ingredient diy sports drinkbut an even better option is to make your own. not only can you control the ingredients, but diy-ing your own at-home sports drink will also save you money.i dont love sports drinks; i dont love the way that they taste, says rizzo, who also suffered from stomach aches when she attempted to incorporate them into her nutrition plan. because of that, i have a recipe for my own sports drink. there are no additives, no weird colors or flavors, and its really simple to make.rizzo highlights the important components that go into a sports drink, and why our bodies need them to re-hydrate:fluid with electrolytes: i use coconut water because its got fluid, but its also got electrolytes, says rizzo. make sure to get a brand that doesnt have any added sugar besides the sugar thats naturally in the coconut, she adds. you need electrolytes in a sports drink because they are the minerals lost in sweat  mainly sodium, calcium, magnesium and potassium. essentially, these electrolytes are needed to balance the amount of water in the body and keep you hydrated. sugar: believe it or not, carbs, in the form of sugar, provide energy for exercise. our body stores carbs in the muscle and liver (its called glycogen), and we use any dietary carbs and stored carbs to power us through exercise, says rizzo. those stored carbs last for about an hour, and then you need to start replacing them for continued energy. for people who are exercising for longer than an hour, they want a carb that will quickly get into their bloodstream, and that comes in the form of sugar in sports drink. plus, the sugar helps the cells take up the fluid quicker, so it gives you energy and keeps you hydrated!salt: runners lose an average of one gram of sodium per liter of sweat, says rizzo. a major component of sweat is sodium, and those that exercise in the heat may experience excessive sweating. if youve ever had white residue on your skin after exercise, thats a build-up of salt. thats why an important part of hydration is taking in some sodium as well. if you exercise indoors in a gym or even outside for only a short period of time, it might not be necessary to add sodium to your diet. but if youre working out in the heat for an extended period of time (45 minutes+), then you might need to add a few extra shakes of salt to your next meal.ready to whip up your own sports drink? rizzo has three different recipes. here, she shares the strawberry version, but you can also make it with orange juice or lemon, based on your taste. i like to make them in a mason jar so that you can let it sit overnight and if you let the frozen strawberries infuse in there, it tastes really good the next morning, you can make it ahead of time if you have an early morning run or workout and its a lot cheaper than buying them at the store, she says.homemade strawberry sports drink12 ounces of coconut water3-4 frozen strawberries1 teaspoon honey (or maple syrup or agave)pinch of saltcombine all ingredients and stir. infuse overnight for the best taste!what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

fess up  raise your hand if youve dropped something on the floor and eaten it anyway, or skipped washing that apple or eaten pizza that sat out all night. mines up. but are those things so bad? robert gravani, professor emeritus of food science at cornell university, talked with nbc news better about some of the worst things were probably all doing in the kitchen, whats probably fine  and how we can all reduce our risk of food-borne bacteria and illness.you dont wash your produce: riskysay you grabbed a tomato out of your backyard garden, or youve got a delicious watermelon from the farmers market. you know where the tomato came from and you dont eat the watermelon rind, right? before you grab that knife, hold on. the deal is all produce that you buy either at retail or farmers markets or even in your home garden should be washed, dr. gravani said. when you cut it with a knife youll drag through anything [thats on the skin] as you cut into the flesh. remember that produce is grown in soil and certainly in the environment we have now [even as] growers are trying to reduce risks of bacterial contaminants, every once in a while we see issues where something goes wrong.to reduce risk of introducing bacteria, wash it under cool running water and pat it dry with a clean towel or paper towel, he said. if the produce is firm like melons or cucumbers, use a clean produce brush to brush it off  especially netted produce like cantaloupe because a lot of critters can hide in there.the wash wont get rid of everything, he said, but it reduces your risk. just dont overdo it, he cautioned, with soaps or detergents. cool water is all you need.you cut the moldy bit off the cheese and eat the rest: it dependsyoure just dying for that last wedge of camembert from last weeks party but  drat  its turning blue. blue cheese is good, so this cant be bad, can it? dr. gravani wants you to step away from the cheese. unless its a hard cheese, like cheddar, that is. its ok to eat the rest if you cut off at least an inch around and below the mold, he said, being sure to keep the knife out of the mold itself to avoid cross contamination. discard the mold and cover the cheese with fresh plastic wrap. the thing here is if the cheese is overwhelmed with mold, forget it  throw it out, its not worth the risk.when it comes to any soft cheeses  think neufchtel, cottage cheese, burrata  youre just out of luck. you cant trust that the mold is localized, he said.but why, when stinky gorgonzola is ok? molds used as part of the manufacturing process are not dangerous, he explained. theyre used to ferment the milk to create the flavors that we enjoy. molds not intentionally part of the process, on the other hand? some molds produce mycotoxins and they can be dangerous, he cautioned. some in fact, he said, can be cancer causing. moral of the story? finish the camembert before it has a chance to go bad.you let fido lick your plate: mostly okif you dont have pets, just move on, nothing to see here. but if your furry friend moonlights as a living, breathing garbage disposal and licks from your dishes, is that horrible? (asking for a friend.)turns out the more serious risk is that they can be ingesting products that may not be good for their digestive system, dr. gravani said. so be careful what youre feeding them. as for the human members of the family? we really want to do a good job of cleaning, he said, but as long as were washing dishes on a sanitation cycle  or high heat of 160 degrees  breathe easy. its ok, he said.were not the only ones who need our dishes sanitized, though. pet bowls were found the be the fourth germiest thing in the house and they should be washed daily. yep, daily, and if youre handwashing them they need weekly sanitation.you had last nights pizza for breakfast  after it sat out all night: riskyyou know what the usda says, dr. gravani said. theres nothing magical about pizza. anything over two hours at room temperature should be discarded. so why is this such a prevalent practice? what usually happens is some people dont see any adverse effects so they think its ok, he said. but just because youve been lucky so far doesnt mean youre home free. organisms that cause foodborne illnesses varying from very mild to significant can be lurking there with your olives and pepperoni. to be on the safe side, just cram the box into the fridge.youre still eating that food with last months date stamped on it: it dependsthis is so confusing to most consumers, dr. gravani said. they have no idea what these designations mean. i sure hope at some point we can get a handle on getting peoples definitions. in the meantime?every product has a usable shelf life and at some point the quality begins to deteriorate and thats usually what these dates mean, he said. you can eat some of these after the dates but use your senses. if its significantly lacking in quality you dont want to consume it. thats a little murky though. gravani agrees.the keeping quality of food still mystifies people because they have no clue. the good news is theres help available on your phone. gravani and cornell worked with food safety partners like the usda to develop a free app called the foodkeeper. its pretty cool, he said. theres basic information about dating but also a rough idea of the keeping quality of a variety of foods. its really a great app to get a sense of how long folks can keep something.you grill your steak and put it back on the same platter: very riskythat happens more than you think, dr. gravani said. hes seen it, in fact, when at a barbecue someone brings out raw meat on a platter and wants to put the cooked meat back on it. i quietly walk the platter back to the kitchen.certainly raw foods of animal origin contain pathogens, he said, so letting food youre going to eat touch raw meat is a definite no-go. not only that, he added, youve got to cook it thoroughly. how many people have thermometer? slim to none so its all eyeballing and we know undercooked hamburger causes illness. and that holds true whether or not you know where the meats coming from, he said. bacteria doesnt know the difference in a small or medium or large farm, or organic or conventional.you dropped your sandwich on the floor and ate it anyway: probably riskyahh, the good old five second rule. dr. gravanis former student and good friend donald schaffner, a food science professor at rutgers university, is a risk modeler who set out to get to the truth about that old adage. he looked at four different surfaces and four different foods and he inoculated the surfaces and he dropped the foods for a fraction of a second, less than five seconds, five seconds, and an extended time, dr. gravani said.the bottom line was the longer the contact the more bacteria so the five second rule is kind of an oversimplification of what happens when bacteria transfers to food. but, heres the key. no matter which food or which surface, they saw bacterial transfer. there was no safe amount of time to leave food on the floor and it is never completely risk free.so why do we do it? just like with the pizza phenomenon, if people drop it and dust it off and eat it with no consequence thats a learned response, he said. but from a microbiologist point of view thats a bad news situation.the worst thing most of us do every daywhats the biggest thing were all doing wrong? according to dr. gravani, the most important thing is just the simple act of handwashing. what a lost practice.before handling food or eating we need to wash our hands for 20 seconds, he said. its [singing] happy birthday twice. and thats the hard and fast rule at his house. even when friends come over to eat, we say we have a rule  we march everyone to wash their hands. if we could just bring that practice back, he said, i think that would reduce a lot of hassles.so should we all be aiming for a completely sterile kitchen? of course not. i dont think anyone is advocating for operating room conditions in your kitchen, dr gravani said. what were saying [is] across the board, the food agencies and health and agriculture departments, lets reduce the risk, there are some common practices we can use. these pathogens are all around now and organisms that we never thought about 20 years ago are now household names. we can still enjoy our food  remember its social, its about enjoying the moment and you dont want to make that a sterile lifeless situation. have fun but do it safely.and with that, ill go wash my hands.more healthy home hacksquick and easy diy cleaning hacks thatll make life easierhow often you should clean your home, according to sciencewhy the 20/10 method can change the way you cleanhow often to replace everything in your bathroom, bedroom and kitchen

rising prices are making it difficult, if not impossible, for some first-time home buyers  especially millennials  to come up with enough cash to cover the down payment.to get in the game, some millennials are raiding their retirement accounts for that money, according to a recent report from bank of the west. the 2018 millennial study, released in july, is based on a nationwide survey of more than 600 millennials (ages 21-34). the key findings:three in 10 millennials (29 percent) who already own a home have taken out a loan or withdrawn from an ira or 401(k) account.two in 10 millennials (19 percent) who plan to buy a home expect to dip into their retirement accounts to fund their purchase.ryan bailey, head of bank of the wests retail banking group, calls these findings alarming.millennials are so eager to become homeowners that some may be inadvertently cutting off their nose to spite their face, bailey said in a statement. with careful financial planning, millennials can have it all  the dream home today, without compromising their retirement security tomorrow.three in 10 millennials (29 percent) who already own a home have taken out a loan or withdrawn from an ira or 401(k) account.the bank of the west survey also found that millennials are more likely than other generations to have regrets about buying a home, indicating they may have rushed into the decision without asking all the right questions.a white picket fence can certainly be a smart investment. to avoid buyers remorse, millennials should cover their bases and kick the proverbial tires  reflecting on their physical and financial wishes for a home before they sign on the dotted line, bailey said.yes, millennials do want to own a homemillennials are different from previous generations in many ways, but surveys show they still share the american dream of owning a home.the desire remains strong, said lawrence yun, chief economist at the national association of realtors. about 80 percent of renters, especially millennials, indicate they would like to own at some point in the future. current market conditions can kill that dream. with the median selling price for a house now $231,700, according to zillow, a 10 percent down payment of $23,000 can be a deal breaker for a younger, cash-strapped buyer. in a hot market, such as seattle, where the median selling price is $710,000 and a 20 percent down payment is the rule, thats $142,000.yun doesnt believe tapping retirement funds to buy a house is necessarily a bad thing.for the middle-class, most wealth is tied to their homes, he said. so, to the degree that [younger buyers] are pulling the money out and not using it for general consumption, but in a sense, theyre just switching investment from stocks and bonds into real estate, i would consider that as a more neutral move.financial advisors contacted by nbc news better cautioned against tapping retirement savings to buy a house. for most millennials, they noted, the 401(k) will be the major source of income during their retirement years.rebecca steele, president &amp; ceo of the national foundation for credit counseling (nfcc), called it a terrible idea that doesnt make sense.theres no reason that millennials should trade in a financially secure retirement for the purchase of a home, steele said. using retirement funds to cover the cost of a down payment in lieu of sufficient savings or more affordable housing options is a short-sighted move that can have lasting negative consequences.the most important move any homebuyer could make is to explore all other options and make the most informed choices, which can be done with support from nonprofit homebuyer education programs such as those offered by the nfcc and other hud-approved agencies, she said.if the retirement fund remains the only available source of money for the down payment, its not the right time to buy a home, steele cautioned.other options to considerthere are funding options for first-time home buyers that range from the simple to the complex, according to ilyce glink, a personal finance expert and reporter.you could talk to a parent about borrowing money or getting a gift from them, glink said. you could work a second job and dedicate all of that money to building your down payment. there are ways to raise the cash other than raiding your financial future.in her book 100 questions every first-time home buyer should ask, glink advises millennials to check out these resources:downpaymentresource.com helps you find free and available cash for down payments available from housing finance agencies, realtors, multiple listing services (mlss) and lenders. the site says 87 percent of u.s. homes are eligible for some type of homeownership program.u.s. department of housing and urban developments hudhomestore.com helps you find hud homes and fha foreclosures. down payments can be as low as 3.5 percent. huds good neighbor next door program offers a 50 percent discount off the list prices of eligible properties to law enforcement officers, firefighters, emergency medical technicians and teachers.fha loans can be another smart option for first-time home buyers, even those with fair credit (580 or higher). rates are higher than a traditional loan, but borrowers who qualify for an fha loan can make a down payment of as little as 3.5 percent.veterans should consider a zero-down va home loan.low- and moderate-income families who want to buy in a rural community should check the u.s. department of agricultures single family housing guaranteed loan program.the bottom lineif after weighing all the options you decide to dip into your retirement savings, take out a loan rather than make a withdrawal, financial experts told nbc news better. you do have to pay back the loan  with interest  but its not a taxable event. generally, there is a tax penalty for an early withdrawal.\"its always better to get your financial house in order, clear debt out of the way and then buy a home when its affordable for you, without cutting into your retirement savings, nfccs steele said. if youre going to make the decision to dip in to your retirement savings, borrowing is the better choice  but its not recommended to either borrow or cash out. neither is a good idea.\"more home buying tipswhat you need to know about renting vs. buying a homehow to grow your savings and reach your short-term goals fasterhow the 50-20-30 rule can help you get out of debt and save moneywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its a tale as old as time: two people fall in love. at first, they cant get enough of each other. but as the years wane, so does the romance.when youre bored with your relationship, its easy to blame your partner, explains spiritual counselor and award-winning author tracee dunblazier. but the real problem, she says, may be you.the focus always goes back to ourselves, dunblazier tells nbc news better. if youre not at peace with yourself, if you are bored and irritated with being with yourself, then other people are never going to satisfy you no matter how hard you try.in many long-term relationships, people stop trying, dunblazier says. thats because once we feel comfortable with our relationships, we start to fixate more and more on our jobs and other responsibilities instead of the people we love, she says.but there are many ways we can keep our relationships from stagnating, according to the author.focus on what you can do for your partner instead of what they should do for youwhen relationships start to falter, its often because at least one partner feels their expectations arent being met, so they get bored and turn away, says dunblazier. when this happens, the sexual dynamic begins to suffer, she explains.they emotionally take their toys and go somewhere else, dunblazier says.but if you feel your desires arent being met, it may be a sign that you are expecting too much, she says.if a person is finding themselves feeling resentment for their partner, they have to sit down and ask themselves, what are the top five needs that i have that i do not feel are being met by my partner? says dunblazier. then, figure out what you can do for yourself to fulfill those needs.figure out first what you can give to yourself and then that will put you in a different frame of reference to request certain things from your partner, she says, and also it puts you in a position to be able to give more to your partner.when you do this, explains dunblazier, you are much more focused on what you can do for your partner. that, in turn, puts them in a position to focus on your needs, she says.sit and be at peace with each otherhow can couples reconnect when a once-romantic partnership turns boring? a great way to connect is to simply sit in silence with one another, says dunblazier.heres how to do it: sit back to back on the floor. do not speak to each other or turn to make eye contact. simply lean against each other and feel one anothers warmth and energy.once you start there, its really interesting what kind of emotional things come up  intimacy, things you desire to share, says dunblazier. oftentimes, if people would just slow down and pay attention, it will give them the energy they need to open up and share some of their ideas or thoughts.another way to reconnect is to eat together in silence, she says, without trying to force a conversation.i find that more love and affection can happen sometimes the less people physically talk because there is more energy that can be shared, and it can open you up to really communicating things that are meaningful not only to you as a person but to your partner and to the relationship, she says.help your partner outif your partner has a busy life, helping them out with small things will make their day less monotonous and show them you care. if you partner does most of the cleaning, for example, schedule a day where you take over those responsibilities, advises dunblazier.to have help and to feel like your partner is helping you carry the burden of whatever the chores are of the day, that creates a lot of sexual tension and connection to feel like you are in it with somebody, dunblazier says.create a gratitude boardanother way couples can create excitement in their relationship is to create a gratitude board, according to dunblazier. every day, write something on a whiteboard that you love about each other, why you are grateful to be together, or how you feel you each contribute to your relationship spiritually and financially, she advises.bringing that into your relationship is a really powerful way to not feel like the responsibility is just on you or just on them to create wellness or happiness  that there is this larger universe outside of you, says dunblazier.surprise your partnera great way to spark excitement in a relationship is to surprise your partner in small ways, says dunblazier.i love hidden notes  just a little written note, post-it in their brief case or their pocket, in the collar of a shirt, little gift cards, a little $5 dollar starbucks card, she says. i love to do creative things that dont really cost anything.dunblazier recalled a former boyfriend who used to bring her roses from his garden and send her funny social media memes throughout the day.he would constantly send me these hilarious memesand just do really thoughtful things to let me know he was thinking of me, dunblazier remembers, and none of them ever cost him money, and i think i appreciated that, as well.how to create excitement in your relationship:make it about them, not you: when relationships get boring, its often because at least one partner feels their expectations or desires arent being met. instead of expecting your partner to fulfill your needs, focus on how you can fulfill their needs instead. this, in turn, creates opportunities for them to focus on you.eliminate expectations: when once-romantic partnerships become mundane, it can be difficult to reconnect. simply being together without any expectations can be a great way to rebuild romance. sitting back to back in silence, or eating together without forcing a conversation, can help rebuild that energy and intimacy.help your partner out: if your partner is busy all the time, figure out what you can do to help them so their life is less monotonous.write it down: hang a whiteboard on the wall where you and your partner write down what you love and appreciate about each other every day.surprise your partner: figure out small ways to surprise your partner throughout the day, whether its picking them flowers or writing them notes to let them know how much you care.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimehow the simple act of holding hands brought this couple closer than everwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when the phrase keeping up with the joneses was introduced to the english language in 1913 (thanks to a comic strip that ran for the next 25 years), the idiom became a way to express using the comparison to your neighbor as a benchmark for your social class or the amassing of material goods. it meant peering over your neighbors fence and coveting the television set in their living room, the expensive dress in their closet or the car in their driveway.today, our proclivity towards comparison and desire is stronger than ever, but instead of looking across the street, we are gazing into the lives of celebrities through our social media feeds and television sets  and setting a much different cultural standard for how we define wealth and ultimately measure happiness.this cultural shift served as filmmaker lauren greenfields inspiration behind 25 years of research on wealth, consumption and the insatiable desire to keep up. over the past two and half decades, greenfield has taken a deep dive into our cultures obsession with wealth  and the consequences of constantly desiring more  which has ultimately culminated in a museum exhibition, a photographic monograph and a documentary titled generation wealth.\"generation wealth is a look at how the american dream has changed, and really how weve all changed with it, says greenfield. weve gone from values of hard work and frugality and discretion, the values of my parents generation, to a culture that prizes bling and celebrity and narcissism.ultimately greenfield is asking us to consider the question: consumption, at the expense of what? nbc news better sat down with greenfield to get the answer to this question, talking how the desire for wealth is compromising our happiness and how getting back to the basics can help us all reclaim control of our mental health.on the danger of consumptiongreenfield: our desire to consume has consumed us, and thats why we find ourselves not having a moral compass. it leads to a cycle of addiction and dissatisfaction. and you see it with kids today, when you ask them what they want to be when they grow up, the most common reply is, \"rich and famous.\"theres a therapist in the film who told me that that leads to depression and anxiety. once we dont have a clear road map for how to live and how to make meaning, it becomes very hard to find that satisfaction and happiness.on the new american dreamgreenfield: it really comes down to the media messages that were getting. i think the american dream always had a materialistic component. but we used to have institutions like religion and family and the girl scouts and boy scouts, our communities, our schools  that would give us another set of values that might be a countervailing influence to what we got from our peers or from tv. but now, the influence of the media is so strong and so ubiquitous that were just getting those messages. we used to compare ourselves to our neighbors, and that was certainly the old stereotype of the american dream, keeping up with the joneses down the road. but now, we compare ourselves to the people we actually often feel like we know better, which are the people we know from tv. in the film, my own son says he feels like he knows the kardashians better than his own neighbors. the research shows that the more we see those images of luxury and affluence, which have become much more dominant in the media, the more we think thats normal and the more we want those things.on social mediagreenfield: social media has just amplified it; were always looking to compare ourselves with somebody else who has more, who looks better, whos at a better party. and not only is that unrealistic, but its often fictional. people are curating these perfect lives, and just like a girl is going to be miserable if she tries to compare herself to a retouched model in a magazine, were all going to be miserable if were comparing ourselves to these unrealistic ideals.one of the people i talked to, chris hedges, says that social media is actually the end of real friendship, because real friendship is about breaking down the walls that we have between people and being vulnerable and our online friendship is all about presentation. faking it till we make it, posing as what we want. a lot of people are realizing that looking at other people all the time is actually kind of depressing. i keep seeing people go off social media, or say they need to take a break. the more we catch ourselves wanting something out there, the more we need to wake up to kind of the wealth that is already there, thats all around us.on the difference between ambition and obsessiongreenfield: theres nothing wrong with ambition  it drives people to a lot of great things  just like theres nothing wrong with money. but sometimes, if were doing it out of a place of feeling like we need to be more, it becomes an addiction. there is a propensity in our culture that drives us toward that. achievement can be really good. but what ive learned in this process is that balance is also part of the equation. and balance is whats needed to make you a better person, a better mother, a better daughter, a better father. and so i think we need to listen to the people around us and hopefully we can find a way to do our work, and make the world a better place at the same time.on turning the magnifying glass on herselfgreenfield: what surprised me in making this film is that i became a part of it, too. i thought i would be in there as a narrator, but i ended up being in the film, and realizing that i, too, had my own addiction, that my passion for my work was also irrational in some way, because it took me away from my family to a really extreme degree. i end up also having to listen to how it affects my son, and try to understand where it comes from with my parents, and had to really wake up myself to the wealth around me. the change that happened as a part of this film is subtle. i feel like it was cathartic for me. i know it was also changing for my son. he talked about how us having this conversation on camera was a gift to both of us and our relationship. how it cracked open our communication, and i think i became a better listener to him, and he became more aware of me and the pressures in my life. with my mom, too; we had conversations about things that happened in my childhood that i was still kind of carrying around. and i think in the process, we also got closer. so in a way, the same kind of cathartic experience of the subjects in the film, in my interviews with them, i experience myself as the camera got turned around to me.on working to find balancegreenfield: my dad says in the film, you never have the balance perfect. and i think that work-life balance is a little bit of a holy grail. its hard to get it quite right. you cant do your work really well if youre not completely focused on it, and i think you cant be a great role model to your kids if you dont have a bigger purpose in your work and your life.for me, the key is awareness, to not [have] tunnel vision in either of those things, but to really be aware of how what youre doing affects the people around you, and listening to them. for me, just knowing how my work affects my kids makes me change. of course, i still love my work and i still travel and i still work. but it just makes me aware of the little things. being present when im with them. listening to them. turning off the social media, or not taking the calls from work. it just changes the calculus about how you spend your time.on finding the antidote to toxic wealthgreenfield: what i learned from this journey is that the antidote is getting back to what matters, getting back to the values of family and community and the things that give our life meaning. in a way, its the biggest clich in the world: money doesnt buy you happiness and all you need is love. what matters most to people and what really brings them happiness is their family, their friends, their community. feeling like theyre making a difference. have meaning in their work and in their home life. studies show that kids were happier after the financial crisis than before, because they had more time with their families. its taking time to listen to yourself and your family about what really matters, because we know these things, and we hear them, but we just forget them constantly and need to be reminded. it doesnt help that all of the messages from brands and from the media is enticing us to buy more, have more, need more. one of the brilliant and tragic parts of capitalism is that it always sows our insecurity, makes us feel like were not enough and we need to buy that product to be more beautiful or to be acceptable. and our identity now is so tied to what we have that we really need to find ourselves an identity thats away from what we have, before we can be happy with ourselves.on redefining wealthgreenfield: what i have learned through this journey is wealth is really about waking up to whats already around you and appreciating what you have. and most importantly, family, friends, community. for me, work is also a source of wealth, but ive also learned that balance is needed.on looking at the extremes to understand the mainstreamgreenfield: its important to remember that this film is not about the one percent. its really about how those images of the one percent affect all of us. and what i learned in the process was my own complicity. i hope that when people go into the film, they see how theyre a part of generation wealth, too. some of the characters seem like they might be extremes. the hedge fund banker. the porn star. the child beauty pageant. and yet, in my work, i have had to look at extremes, or people in extreme situations, so that we can see whats going on all around us. a lot of times, the way were affected by the popular culture is like the air we breathe. its invisible. and so we need to see more extreme versions to see it reflected in ourselves. but really, the point is to understand how were all part of this, and the kind of changes that we can all make to have a more sustainable future.on getting back to traditiongreenfield: we need to wake up to whats around us, and in a way, what we see in the film is the characters waking up to the matrix that theyre in  and im part of it, too. if you can unplug from the media messages, great. if you can keep yourself out of the store where you know youre just going to want to buy once you go in, great. but exposure is a fact of our society. and so i think we need to build our critical tools to navigate that. chris hedges says in the film that its culture, and authentic culture, that gives us the ability to criticize ourselves. and thats what we need: a clear eyed look at ourselves and why were doing the things were doing, and why we want the things that we do. and when we realize why we want them, sometimes we dont want them quite so much.more mental health helphow defusing my thoughts helped me claw my way back from debilitating anxiety7 steps for getting through a panic attackhow to worry bettermental health services: how to get treatment if you cant afford ithow to find the right therapistwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

where do we turn when we need answers, guidance or support on a matter that were confused about? we may talk to family, friends and professionals, but often alongside (or ahead of) consulting those folks, we hit up our favorite fountain of knowledge, google. we have an insatiable need to know and this most powerful search engine, can feed us information endlessly. internetlivestats has a live ticker of how many google searches are going on at any given moment. right now, at 5pm, there have been nearly 4.5 billion searches so far  and that number is climbing so rapidly its a headache to watch.how many of todays searches are related to our money matters or concerns? it would take some intense seo data breakdowns to figure this out, since money is broken into so many different keywords and phrases, but some quick exploring on google trends shows that money is constantly a topic of interest, and a new study by student loan hero, lends some insights on just exactly what were searching for  and how our geography may influence our quest for improving our financial literacy.our financial state of mind varies from state to statethe study, which used google trends as its base for analysis, found that money-related queries vary across the u.s. some states are more apparently most concerned with eliminating debt, others on saving for retirement, while issues like car loans and healthcare are the most popular areas of focus for other states. cities also tend to have their own most likely money searches.we started with keywords we wanted to capture, then we looked at geographical insights, elyssa kirkham, content writer at student loan hero and the lead researcher on this project tells nbc news better. we also looked at [activity in] metropolitan areas which is how we got lists of cities.the motivation for this study, the first of its kind for student loan hero, came from the companys desire to learn what money questions were top of mind over the past year, from both a big picture, and a more localized viewpoint.some states may be stressing more over loans, others over the best credit cardsare people looking more on debt management [in one area]? or are they more likely to be worried about late payments? by taking a state-level look at what people are interested in, we got an indicator of possible concerns there, and where people are more likely to be financially aware, says kirkham, adding: however, if residents arent searching on google, that doesnt mean they dont have these questions, they just may not be looking online for answers there, or theyre putting these questions on the back burner.the study considered every state, including the district of columbia, and found that while in some cases theres no evident direct link between whats happening at the local level, often there is a connection.oregons top search was mortgage, and their housing market is booming, so that makes sense, says kirkham. d.c. was searching student debt and public student loan forgiveness, which also makes sense because that may have a government job or work for a non-profit. kentucky has had a lot of [debate] over pension policies, and people there were likely to be searching for the term pension.residents are also reflecting their respective states economic woes in their google searches.in states like louisiana and mississippi, theres indication that people are struggling more to stay afloat, noted kirkham. in louisiana, payday loan is searched for the most, and essential financial products like auto insurance and checking account are also popular. missouris top search was social security, a state that is grappling with profound poverty.united states of huh? were all searching these four termsthe popularity of our financial concerns and interest may run the gamut, geographically, but in some sense were all in this together. the study found that in key search terms soared this past year, landing as the most popular money search terms in the u.s  and as zack friedman, founder and ceo of make lemonade, a personal finance comparison site, notes, there are clear reasons why.the new tax bill. \"the new tax law affects everyone, says friedman. with new tax brackets and tax rates, americans want to learn more how the new tax law will impact their financial pockets.equifax (and/or) the equifax data breach. the equifax data breach sent shockwaves throughout america and highlighted the need for increased data security when it comes to personal and financial information, he says. consumers want to learn more how they can safeguard their personal and financial information.cryptocurrency-related terms including bitcoin value and bitcoin price.\" cryptocurrencies are one of the hottest financial trends, but they have created intense debate between believers and doubters, friedman says. at the same time, consumers have witnessed a surge in the price of cryptocurrency prices before watching them decline. consumers and investors also want to learn more about blockchain technology and its implications for financial services, health care, law and many other areas.deposit accounts and certificate of deposit. consumers want to know how to earn more on their savings, and how they can leverage online and mobile banking, says friedman. in a rising interest rate environment like we have today, online checking and saving accounts are a smart financial move to earn a much higher interest rate for your money.\"google is useful, but consider experts to make financial decisionsall of these most popular search terms ive googled myself when looking for answers. im also a true los angeleno judging by this study, as ive definitely googled best credit card in the last year  one of the most likely financial search terms in l.a.google has been incredibly helpful in guiding me to the information i need, and as kimberly palmer, personal finance expert with nerdwallet notes, you can ask google anything and not feel embarrassed or judged by your question, as you might be if you asked a friend or family member. we can get answers and stop feeling so confused by educating ourselves.but when making financial decisions that could be life changing, its recommended that we seek reputable sources that specialize in these matters.google is definitely a good place to go to learn more about money, but you want to consider the source of the information before taking any advice, says palmer. websites vary widely in quality and accuracy, and while google is good at leading you to websites that will answer your question, you want to make sure you know where that information comes from and whether or not it is biased or inaccurate. its a good idea to make sure you are getting your financial information from trusted sources, whether its a major media website, financial institution, or [a personal finance site].get more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 daysneed to save money fast? try a spending banwant to get of debt and save money? try the 50/20/30 rulewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

there are three macronutrients  protein, fat, and carbohydrates  but these days, it seems like all anyone wants to talk about is protein. read about a popular diet from whole 30 to keto to paleo  and protein has a starring role. walk through the grocery store and youll be bombarded with protein callouts on everything from pasta (made from plant protein, of course!) to bars to cereal to yogurt, and more. according to one survey, 60% of consumers are looking to get more protein in their diet. given its star status, its a good idea to get clear on what protein can (and cant) do.what is protein exactly?protein provides the structural support for every cell in your body, and its a component of skin, joints, bones, nails, muscles and more. without getting overly complicated, proteins are involved in how your immune system functions, hormone regulation, and the transmission of signals from one organ to another.the protein we eat from sources like chicken, beef, seafood and beans is made up of smaller compounds called amino acids. there are 20 amino acids, nine of which are considered essential because your body needs them and they must be obtained from food. the remaining amino acids can be obtained from food sources, but even if you dont eat them, your body will get them by breaking down other proteins so they arent required, so to speak.how much protein do we need?the truth is, you dont need that much protein for your body to function properly. in order for your body to support its basic needs, you need 0.8 g of protein per kilogram of body weight. hang on to your calculator! stats suggest that most people easily achieve this target, and in fact, the average adult consumes about 90 grams of protein per day.the recommended dietary allowance, or rda, of 0.8 g per kilogram may be a low bar, says douglas paddon-jones, phd, facsm, sheridan lorenz distinguished professor in aging and health, department of nutrition and metabolism, the university of texas medical branch. to offset some of the muscle decline that occurs as we age and to get the feel-full benefits, he recommends more. however, whats just as important is how youre spreading out your protein throughout the day and ensuring youre making smart protein picks.meal timing mattersspecifically, experts stress the benefits of eating a protein-packed breakfast. so if youre used to cereal when you wake up and chicken for dinner, you need to make sure youre boosting your am meal with more protein. heres why: when you sleep, your body begins to break down protein, which is thought to play a role in why we slowly lose muscle as we age, explains donald k. layman, phd, professor emeritus of the department of food science &amp; human nutrition at university of illinois. until you begin stoking the repair and replace phase by eating a protein-rich meal, your body will continue to stay in break down mode. the right range seems to be from 20 to 35 g at breakfast, according to the experts i spoke with. from there, you want to continue to aim for similar amounts at each meal.the perks of getting enough proteinmany people amp up their protein intake to help with hunger and weight loss, and these benefits have merit. according to jamie i. baum, phd, associate professor of nutrition and director, center for human nutrition at the department of food science, university of arkansas, protein has positive effects, but its not a magic bullet. (theres always a catch!)mathematically speaking, if youre looking to slim down, when you add something to your diet  in this case, more protein  you have to take something out. but assuming youve adjusted for your calorie needs (say, by sizing down your carb portions), a protein-rich menu will give you an edge. protein burns about 10 to 20 extra calories a day, which might not seem like a lot, but its enough to counteract the one to two pounds that americans gain every year, she explains. it also helps you feel fuller longer, which helps prevent overeating. as anyone who has lost weight (or tried to) knows, hunger is enemy number one.beyond weight loss and hunger management, packing your meals with protein helps you hold on to precious muscle as you age. though skimping on protein at a single meal wont do any damage, each time you fall short, youve missed an opportunity to activate protein synthesis in your muscles. if this happens often and youre over 35 years old, your muscle mass may start to decline, explains paddon-jones.and of course, for those looking to transform their physique with diet and exercise, protein is your friend. adequate protein is needed for muscle maintenance, as well as for healing from the wear and tear exercise puts on the body. athletes have greater protein needs for two reasons: they generally have more muscle mass, and they require this key building block for exercise recovery, says cynthia sass mph, rd, a new york and los angeles-based performance nutritionist.however, to gain muscle mass and strength, you need to be exercising adequately as well. simply eating protein wont produce michelle obama biceps. assuming you are, timing your protein intake is also key. athletes should include protein in every meal, spread fairly evenly throughout the day, although protein should be minimized 60-90 minutes pre-exercise in favor of easy to digest, nutrient rich carbs for fuel. post-exercise meals should always include lean protein, combined with lots of veggies, anti-inflammatory fat, whole food sources of carbohydrates, and plenty of antioxidant-rich herbs and spices. this combination maximizes the ability to use protein for muscle repair and building, says sass.is more protein better?certainly, there seems to be benefit to consuming more than the actual rda for protein. however, at a certain point, your body may reach a threshold for both hunger management and muscle building, and at that time, additional protein will be stored like anything else you eat in excess: as fat. also, as baum repeatedly mentioned, simply adding protein without removing something could put you over your daily calorie needs, which will promote weight gain  not loss. that said, unless you have kidney disease or uncontrolled diabetes, there doesnt seem to be a risk to consuming a protein-heavy diet, according to baum.you dont have to eat meat to get the protein you needaccording to registered dietitian marie spano, rd, sports nutritionist for the atlanta hawks, braves, and falcons, though vegans and vegetarians can definitely get what they need with plant-based protein, theres a difference between plant and animal sources. protein from animal sources provides all the amino acids and is more available to your body whereas protein from plant compounds isnt as readily available (and for the most part, they do not provide all 20 amino acids). so while you dont need to eat meat to get the protein you need, you do have to put a little more thought into your diet to make sure youre getting a variety sources at each sitting.the main protein sources in a meatless diet are soybeans and pulses (such as chickpeas, lentils, peas and other beans), as well as nuts, seeds and whole grains. you need to mix plant proteins together (versus eating one alone) to get all essential amino acids during your meal, says spano.what about protein powders and collagen?protein powders do serve a purpose, says renee korczak phd, rdn, united team dietitian and assistant teaching professor at the department of food science and nutrition, university of minnesota twin cities. protein isolate as part of a smoothie or shake, for example, can be a convenient way to reach optimal ranges, particularly at breakfast when many americans are accustomed to reaching for foods like toast, bagels and cereals, which are poor sources of protein. just be sure youre using a quality source of protein powder, whether whey-based or a plant-based one, like pea protein. also inspect the ingredient list for artificial ingredients, like colors or flavors, and for added sweeteners.the benefits of collagen peptides, however, may be limited to its impact on your joints and inflammation. these supplements, which contain a chain of amino acids to form collagen, an abundant protein in skin, hair, nails and joints, are touted for many things, but the experts who weighed in are skeptical about their benefits to ignite strength gains or changes in body composition. that said, the evidence suggests collagen peptides may be beneficial by reducing pain in people with osteoarthritis, and supplementation may offset some of the wear and tear on your joints and ligaments and reduce the risk of injury among active folks. as with other supplements, if youd like to try collagen peptides, make sure youre choosing one from a quality manufacturer.

when harmony hobbs, a 38-year-old freelance writer living in baton rouge, embarked on sobriety she was going to aa meetings and in therapy, but some of her best support she found in an unexpected place: the internet.when i started trying to get sober, someone i know in recovery invited me to a womens only facebook group for others struggling with sobriety, says hobbs, who recently achieved 18 months clean. it has been so valuable as resource for me. as a parent of three, i cant always drop what i am doing and go to an aa meeting. its hard enough just to make it to therapy. with these women, i can be sitting in the kitchen, have a moment where i think about walking to the store to get vodka, and just hop on there and say im struggling, and theyre there.hobbs recounts one particularly powerful moment, when, knowing she had to dispose of her sons adderall when he no longer needed it, she couldnt bring herself to do it alone. no one was available to come over and be with me, so i went into the facebook group and said, i want you to watch me dump these pills, and i did it live. that held me accountable. i really think that might have saved me from myself.a mental health peer is not a therapistsuch is the beauty of having a mental health peer, which seneca williams, a licensed mental health counselor defines as an accountability partner that has recovered from or is successfully managing their symptoms of mental health to support you through your mental health condition.a mental health peer is not licensed or credentialed provider of mental health treatment, williams clarifies, and its important to note that such a person cant replace a mental health professional. instead, a mental health peer (or group of peers) is an additional resource for coping. sometimes they can help in ways that therapists cant.a key benefit to a peer is that [they will] speak honestly about their personal experience, says monica elden, a licensed marriage and family therapist who specializes in integrative psychotherapy, coaching and training. a therapist will not reveal or share as much personally the way a peer can.a mental health peer is different than a regular frienda mental health peer may wind up becoming a good friend, as has been the case for hobbs, but youll likely never call this person your best friend, and thats a good thing. ideally, a mental health peer is more like an objective but empathetic confidante who has gone through the same types of mental health challenges that youre presently navigating and can talk with you from a place of personal wisdom. a mental health peer does not coddle or indulge you, just as they dont judge or dismiss you. and they certainly dont enable you.a regular friend can be supportive, listen and empathize, but they may also enable unhealthy patterns that dont make your mental health better,\" says williams. \"[they can] be supportive but cannot give you useful feedback from their experience managing that mental health issue, because they have not had to deal with it and their perspective is different. they can sympathize or empathize, but their inability to completely grasp what you are feeling, can make you feel more isolated, which is very counterproductive to healing.what is productive to healing, is feeling understood by another who knows what its like to be in your shoes.for me personally, there is a tremendous amount of value in bonding with someone over having moved forward from that trauma or illness, says delton russell, member engagement specialist at cardinal innovations healthcare solutions. who better to understand and support me than someone thats been there? think of it as if you have lived in a particular region your whole life and then you move to a foreign country and while living there you meet someone that grew up the next town over from you and understands your dialect and shares the same love you have for a local restaurant. it doesnt mean that your [other] friends are any less to you, but youll likely have some kind of bond with the person that comes from the same area as you.online support groups can be your best betto find a mental health peer, you should check out support groups dedicated to your mental health issue(s). sometimes, this is most effectively done online, where youre not limited by travel or inhibited by the possibility of being judged by someone in your real-life community.with social media more people have access to the support that may not be available in rural areas and small towns where there is a strong presence of mental health stigma and lack of resources,\" says williams. \"online support groups can definitely be an advantage in finding a community of people dealing with the same issues you, [who] will not be deterred by mental health stigma. online support alone, like private fb groups can prevent a mental health crisis, the need for emergency care, improvement in quality of life and emotional wellness.\"margaret laws, ceo of hopelab, which recently conducted a survey finding that many teens and young adults use social media to help cope with depression, adds that in some cases, having a screen between you can be not as scarily intimate and it can enable to you be more honest.even mental health professionals turn to online groups for their own support needs.im a therapist and ive also been in treatment for [major depressive disorder] for four years, says crystal shelton, mssw, lcsw and vp of clinical programs at cohen veterans network. finding other mental health professionals who are also working through their own challenges in my local community would be incredibly challenging, but with online communities, i can find support groups and message boards with access to very specific and helpful discussions around balancing things like self-care and when (if ever) to disclose status in a treatment session.how to get started online and what red flags to look out forheres how to get started finding a mental health peer, and what to look out for in terms of red flags.do a keyword search. hobbs recommends searching for the keyword around your problem or illness on facebook, request to join a few closed groups, and once in, observe the behavior of its members before participating in a post or reaching out. in addition to facebook, williams recommends searching whatsapp chats and meetup groups.beware the emotional vampire. be careful with people who seem to use you to feed into their mental health dilemma, in a toxic or unproductive way, dumping their emotions or projecting their emotions on you, says williams.avoid fixers. williams discourages interacting with people who appear to be treating your mental health; only a licensed clinician can do this. they cannot diagnose you or tell you what to do for a particular diagnosis. they cannot give you advice on what substances or medications you should or should not take.set clear boundaries and expectations. [mental heath peers] are there to share their mental health experiences, tips, advice. they are there to listen and support, not fix or solve your problem. they are not required to always be available, they are voluntarily supporting. set times to speak, and only share as much as you feel comfortable sharing.be open to the process. the truth is most people in online supports groups are just like you: wanting connection, to feel heard, accepted and supported, says williams. with a mental health peer, you can finally feel like you have a partner joining you, on a difficult journey to recovery and managing your mental health. it is a mutually beneficial partnership with someone who understands your language and wants to grow with you.more mental health helpwhat is gaslighting? and how do you know if its happening to you?how to worry betterhow to take a mental health daya daily ritual that will help you de-stress (in just 5 minutes)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

thanks to climate change, summers are longer and hotter, and we only have more extreme vacillations in temperature to look forward to. according to the weather channel, record highs were reported in many cities across the country this past decade  and not in just one region. globally, numerous locations in the northern hemisphere, experienced their hottest weather ever recorded last month, according to the washington post.across 50 large u.s. cities over the last 50 years, observed average heat wave frequency, length and intensity has increased significantly, says kim knowlton, senior scientist and deputy director of the science center at the natural resources defense council.not to mention that on august 1, south korea set a new national heat record when the temperature soared to 104.5 degrees fahrenheit. and europe is feeling the heat, too as forecasters predict that records will be broken in spain and portugal in the coming days.with extreme heat comes risk of heat-related illness, or hyperthermia. heat-related illness is no joke: according to the center for disease control (cdc), an estimated 650-plus people die each year from heat related illnesses. heat isnt just an inconvenience: it can kill people, says knowlton. during heat waves, there are also frequent increases in illnesses, hospital admissions and premature mortality among people with heart, kidney and lung ailments.the most common heat-induced ailments include:heatstroke (also sun stroke)the most serious heat-related illness, heatstroke is described by the mayo clinic as the body overheating due to prolonged exposure to or physical exertion in high temperatures. symptoms include high body temperature (of 104+), slurred speech or an altered mental state, skin thats hot to the touch, nausea, vomiting, rapid breathing, rapid pulse and a pounding headache.the solve: suspected heatstroke requires an immediate trip to the emergency room.heat exhaustiona little less severe than heatstroke, symptoms of heat exhaustion are heavy sweating, paleness, weakness, dizziness, tiredness, fainting and nausea.the solve: again, seek medical attention immediately.heat crampsheat cramps are painful muscle pain or spasms that often come with heavy sweating during exercise, says knowlton.the solve:stop and restdrink something with electrolytesstretch out where it hurtsdont resume your workout and seek medical attention if the cramps stick aroundheat rashtiny pimples or small clusters of super itchy blisters  also known as prickly heat  are basically blocked pores of trapped perspiration.the solve:heat rash usually resolves on its ownkeep the area dry and cooldress lightly and in loose, breathable fabricskidney stonesone wouldnt immediately connect kidney stones  hardened mineral deposits in your kidneys that can pass through the urethra  with heat waves, but knowlton mentions a study that projects an estimated 1.6 - 2.2 million cases of painful kidney stones might be expected in the u.s. by 2050, as temperatures rise with climate change, increasing dehydration and risk of stone formation.the solve: only a doctor can diagnose kidney stones. if you feel sharp pain in your side, back or groin, see changes in your urine (if its pink or bloody), have nausea and vomiting, seek medical attention.migrainesmigraines are painful headaches that can present with a wide variety of symptoms. theyre also more common during the summer months: knowlton mentioneda study of over 7,000 cases of migraine headaches so severe, patients were admitted to the er  there was a 7.5 percent rise in migraines for every 9f (5c) increase in temperature on the preceding day.the solve: migraine symptoms vary wildly. if resting or sleeping in a dark quiet room, cold compresses and over-the-counter pain relievers dont help, see your doctor or neurologist to seek out your best form of treatment.knowlton says excess heat can also effect:diabeticsmultiple sclerosis patientspeople who take beta blockers and antihistamines,pregnant womenthose with mental illnesshow to keep cool in a heat wavewear lightweight, light-colored clothingkeep your ac set at 75 degrees, or use your energy saver setting to do your part in preventing a power outagewalk on the shady side of the streetpace your outdoor activitiesavoid alcohol and coffee (they dehydrate you)wear a hat, sunglasses and sunscreenavoid eating hot, heavy mealseat fruit with high water content, like watermelon, cantaloupe, strawberries and peaches, to help you stay hydrateddrink plenty of non-sugary, non-alcoholic fluids to replace the salt and minerals you sweat outsome prescription meds might make you more sensitive to heat  find out if yours is among themdont leave kids or pets in cars  even with windows cracked openavoid using your oven, stove or dryer until later at night when it cools downkeep shades or curtains drawn to keep your home coolercheck in on elderly neighbors, people with mobility, health, hearing or language barrierskeep your dog cool, tooleni kaplan, dvm, ms, lecturer at the cornell university college of veterinary medicine, says your dogs breed can determine their tolerance for heat or cold. arctic dogs do much better in cold temperatures. dogs with medical conditions, such as laryngeal paralysis, do not tolerate hot temperatures at all. if you question whether it is too hot outside for your dog, then it probably is.to keep your dog cool, kaplan advises dog owners to avoid midday walks  go early in the morning or after sunset, instead. bring a portable bowl to give your dog water on the go.knowlton says dogs are at risk from heat stroke too, especially so-called brachycephalic breeds (dogs with shortened or squished faces, like french bulldogs). if your pet is showing its own signs of heat stroke, like a fast heartrate, loud panting, excessive drooling, vomiting, or disorientation, cool their ears, feet and stomach with lukewarm or cool water and get them to a vet asap. also, if your dog starts drinking more than usual, you might want to have them seen by a vet.if your dog pants heavily, seeks shade or water, or slows down, kaplan says to:get them into air conditioningoffer them waterwet or soak their pets paws in cool waterwet the pet down with cool water in a bathtub or using a hoseapply a cool compress to their headif you think your dog might be suffering from heat exhaustion or heat stroke, take them to the vet immediatelythough heat waves dont seem like a big deal, they can be awfully taxing on the body. all the more reason to netflix and chill when those temperatures rise.summer hacks and tipsbetter-for-you barbecue recipesa better way to clean your grillbetter-for-you barbecue recipesprep for your next bbq with these 2 quick and easy hackswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

infants and toddlers, so wonderful and adorable, are alas, total magnets for germs. they touch everything. they put their hands in their mouths (and other things) and then they touch everything again. of course they cant yet master good hand hygiene on their own, so parents and caretakers are always on high alert, constantly cleaning up, wiping down and doing whatever else they can to minimize their babies chances of encountering infectious bacteria.but when youre juggling children and other family and likely work  its really challenging to manage your babys hygiene along with virtually everything they come into contact with. theres only so much you can do; and thats okay, because kids are going to be exposed to germs no matter how pristine your household.germ exposure will happen anyway, but we can take precautions to minimizewere not raising our children in bubbles, says dr. shari platt, chief of pediatric emergency medicine at new york-presbyterian/weill cornell medical center tells nbc news better. a child will be exposed to bacteria when theyre in the outside world (and im a strong believer of getting your child outdoors and to experience other children). if they have healthy immune systems they should be able to fight average exposure.still, dr. platt emphasizes, its important to keep everything as clean as you can to minimize unnecessary exposure to bacteria, which could prompt infection (though platt says its almost impossible to determine when infections are the direct result of contact with everyday germs).heres a list of the items you should be focusing on along with expert tips on how and when to clean them.bath toys and rubber toysa new study by insurancequotes.com tested (using gram and stain culture swab tests) common baby items (a bath toy, a teething toy, a stroller handle and a public diaper changing station) to learn what tended to be the germiest. bath toys blew everything else out of the water, containing over 4.3 million colony-forming units (cfu) per square inch.germs likely arent top of mind at bath time, for example, but bath toys are 10 times dirtier than a pets water bowl and contain the highest rate of gram-negative rods which are extremely harmful to humans, says mel kasulis, project manager for insurancequotes.com bath toys contain 86 percent gram-negative bacteria and 14 percent gram-positive.at the end of each bath time, we recommend soaking all your childs bath toys in a tub of warm water and mild liquid dish soap for several minutes, then rinse well with cool water, says debra johnson, merry maids home cleaning expert. once dry, store them in a basket or storage bin outside of the bathroom.teething toyssince these are constantly in your babys mouth, we like to take an extra step when cleaning these, says johnson. first, soak in a bowl of hot water and mild liquid dish detergent for a few minutes. then, in another tub or bowl, mix together distilled white vinegar and warm water and soak the teething toys for 15 minutes before rinsing clean with cool water.sippy cupsalso in and out of our kids mouths all day, sippy cups should be cleaned with care.place spout and valve in a container or bowl full of baking soda, leave overnight, says johnson. in the morning, soak all pieces in equal parts distilled white vinegar and water for up to 12 hours. use a bottle brush to scrub the cup/top and rinse to make sure you got it all.wooden toysjohnsons underscored pro-tip for wooden toys: do not soak or submerge them in water. wood is porous and that water absorption can potentially harvest mold.heres what johnson suggests:prepare a solution of 50 percent white vinegar and 50 percent water in a spray bottle. spray blocks with the solution. wipe blocks with a dry microfiber cloth. if a spray bottle is not available, mix vinegar and water in a bowl. then immerse a microfiber cloth in the vinegar/water solution, wring out the microfiber cloth, and wipe the wooden blocks.plush toysyou should clean stuffed animals and more plush toys weekly or when it is visibly dirty or stained, says johnson. its also smart to wash these when the baby has been sick to stop the spread of germs. we recommend placing stuffed animals in a pillowcase should parts come off during wash, and wash in the washing machine according to instructions on the tag. if there are none, its standard to wash in hot water and tumble dry on low.mattress and beddingbedding should be cleaned every week, or more often should the need arise (overflow of diaper if your little sneaks into bed), says johnson. first, vacuum both sides of the mattress and underneath it to scoop up any loose debris. if the babys mattress is waterproof, just wipe down with a baby wipe. if it isnt waterproof, mix  cup hydrogen peroxide,  cup water, and  tsp. dish soap. dip a microfiber cloth into the solution and wipe down the mattress. wash all sheets and blankets.you should also take precautions to guard against allergens in the bedding.just as in any room of the house, the number of allergens that can build up in your childs bedroom are tremendous, however they can be managed, says richard ciresi, franchise owner of aire serv, a neighborly company. in order to protect the place where they rest their heads every night, encase their pillows and mattress in a sealed tight dust-mite-proof cover. this will prevent build up. make sure to wash their sheets at least once a week.stroller handlesinsurancequotes study found that the average stroller handles contain 1,418,818 cfu, ranking them third germiest of the four objects tested.typically, stroller handles are made of foam, which makes cleaning them easy, says leanne stapf, vp of operations at the cleaning authority. lather up a dish rag with warm soapy water and wipe down the handle. you will need to do this frequently, as strollers can be subject to a lot of outside germs. if you want to eliminate this step, many manufactures now offer washable grip covers.on the go? johnson suggests baby wipes for a quick scrub down.diaper changing areasurprisingly, public diaper changing stations were the least germy of the four objects tested in the study (maybe because were already vigilantly wiping them down). keep up the habit, and clean these with antibacterial wipes per dr. platts recommendation, before and after use.diaper binsyoull also want to keep those diaper bins in tiptop hygienic condition.diapers are a breeding ground for bacteria and when the diaper bins start looking like mount everest, its time for a deep clean to keep the germs at bay, says stapf. take your diaper bin outside and spray it down with a hose. scrub the pail with warm soapy water or use water and a half cup of borax.to help eliminate any lingering odors, johnson recommends the following: mix together a diy solution of two cups water to 40 drops lavender essential oil for antibacterial properties  and to mask the odor of those yucky diapers. each time a new bag is placed in the bin, sprinkle baking soda in the bag. if you have an extra stinky diaper, sprinkle a tad more baking soda after dropping it in the bin.always be prepped with wipes and ban the five-second ruledr. platt strongly recommends keeping antibacterial wipes on you at all times, adding that you should use these to wipe down any area your child may come into contact with while traveling. for car seats, johnson suggests baby wipes or a spray bottle filled with a combination of water and distilled white vinegar. keep this and a microfiber cloth to wipe in the car and youre good to go.another quick tip from dr. platt: the five-second rule does not apply to children. if they drop something on the floor, wash it immediately. id also like to dispel the myth that our spit cleans anything. loving and nurturing as a parents mouth may be, it is, like all mouths, filled with bacteria.more spring cleaning tipshow often you should clean your home, according to sciencethe best spring cleaning products, according to the proswhy the 20/10 method can change the way you cleanhow often to replace everything in your bathroom, bedroom and kitchenwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

were the wicked queen from snow white to turn to her magic mirror and ask, \"who is the happiest of them all?\" its not a stretch to imagine that the mirror would flash on a nordic person eating cloudberries in a sauna. scandinavia, though surely not without its problems, just seems to get so much right. every year one of these northern european countries tops the world happiness report (this year finland cruised in at #1), driving our outsiders fascination with lifestyle trends like hygge and lagom, along with the nordic diet in general  and now, kalsariknnit, aka pntsdrunk.the name says it all, or most of it, anyway; pntsdrunk means to drink an alcoholic beverage in your pants  specifically your underpants, and its picking up interest in the u.s. theres even a new book out called \"pntsdrunk: kalsarikanni: the finnish path to relaxation\" by miska rantanen, indicating that this seemingly self-explanatory term is packed with heritage and nuances, and is rooted in a distinctly finnish way of interacting with the world and ones self.the original term for [pntsdrunk] is kalsariknnit, a tongue-in-cheek expression of a finnish feeling, basically meaning that feeling when you are going to get drunk at home, alone, in your underwear  with no intention of going out, says heikki vnnen, ceo and founder of the finnish startup happyornot. however, nowadays many finns throw the term around between close friends to hang out casually at home, and enjoy each others company in a quiet setting, with a few drinks, and, of course, sauna.the art of being alone  and loving itto americans, drinking alone can sound, well, lonely (and, as well get to shortly, problematic), but finns typically dont tend to see it that way, in part because theyre quite comfortable with solitude.\"finns, like most scandinavian cultures, are very good at being by themselves,\" says briana volk, the half-finnish co-owner of the portland hunt + alpine club, a scandinavian-influenced cocktail bar in maine, and the co-author of the forthcoming book, \"northern hospitality with the portland hunt + alpine club: a celebration of cocktails, cooking, and coming together.\" volk, fluent in finnish, was raised in astoria, oregon where she was part of strong finnish community.\"finns are fairly introverted and private, she tells nbc news better. we generally dont say hello to one another on the street or on the bus and were used to enduring long, tough winters  sometimes in total darkness. for these reasons, enjoying a drink or two by yourself is a natural thing.\"this isnt drinking alone to cope; its drinking alone to celebratecelebration, relaxation and re-centering are key to pntsdrunk, which is what makes it so radically different from our general understanding of lone alcohol consumption. in america, weve learned that drinking alone usually isnt healthy. your physician or therapist may bring up the question, do you drink alone? when theyre assessing your mental health. answering yes can be a red flag indicating alcoholic behavior.pntsdrunk is indeed drinking alone, but its not associated with problem drinking or alcoholism. first of all, as volk is quick to highlight, its not about getting drunk, nor is it about escapism, coping or avoiding people. its about indulging in me-time.if youre drinking alone because youre depressed or want to forget, thats not pntsdrunk, says volk. pntsdrunk is more like having a glass of wine or beer and reading a book [in the near-nude] after youve just had a long week where you kicked ass. now you want to celebrate with something delicious, which is why you also wouldnt go for the cheapest alcohol available, but something good and in moderation.pntsdrunk isnt for everyone, but it can be a great way to enjoy the occasional drinkscott keatley, a registered dietitian based in new york city finds value in pntsdrunk, not only because there are countless studies showing the benefit of the occasional drink, but also because its a great way to chill out without a care in the world.\"pntsdrunk is really permission to fully relax, which is why it is so great,\" keatley says. \"the idea is not to get wasted but to unwind, recharge [and get away] from the hustle and bustle.pntsdrunk as mindful drinkingpntsdrunk can even be a healthier, more moderate way to drink than when youre out with others.in the united states, we generally drink in groups, which is fine but its very hard to stop at one or two when someone in your group is ready to go for another, says keatley. drinking by yourself  in your underwear  frees you from that kind of peer pressure. it lets you drink a little slower, enjoy your thoughts and then quit once youre done. much like how we should eat mindfully, we should drink mindfully.choose the top-shelf booze and consider these finnish-style cocktailsvolk emphasizes that cheap alcohol or just whatever is available is an absolute no-no in the world of pntsdrunk. you want to aim for something high quality and low in alcohol content such as a light cocktail with finnish vodka, or a top-notch scandinavian beer of which the region has no shortage.i recommend a cocktail that is lower in alcohol, like a spritz or vermouth, so youre not getting drunk, because again, thats not the point, says volk, who also shares a couple of her own bars finnish-inspired cocktail recipes.the norseman(served in a double old-fashioned glass, chilled, with ice.)-2 oz. brown butter-washed aquavit (recipe available in her book)-1 tsp. rich simple syrup-2 dashes angostura bitters-2 green apple slices for garnishfinnish nail(served in a double old-fashioned glass with a large ice cube.)-2 oz. blended scotch-1/2 oz. drambuie-1/2 oz. hunt-alpine cardamom coriander syrup-lemon peel for garnishoptimizing pntsdrunk your experiencewhatever you choose to drink, make sure youre fully appreciating your alone time, preferably by putting all screens away.i dont think we as americans get much alone time, volk says. im married with two kids and personally, get very little of it. i also sleep with my phone next to me in case a work email comes in. were so constantly available that its nice to find ways to celebrate the moments when we dont have to be. i often feel my most creative and centered when by myself, says volk. why not have a delicious drink to make the most of it?undoubtedly, pntsdrunk is not for everyone. if you have a history of any alcoholic tendencies or concerns about your drinking habits then this activity might best be avoided. but if all is well, then maybe a toast to yourself, by yourself in little more than your birthday suit, is in order.next: what is the nordic diet  and why do doctors, dietitians and even psychiatrists like it so much?

they leave you feeling drained after every conversation. they want your nonstop attention and the conversation is always about them. they may be charming, charismatic and the life-of-the-party personality. they also may cheat. they may lie. and its probably someone elses fault when something goes wrong.these are some (but certainly not all) of the traits you might run across in someone who is an energy vampire.an energy vampire is somebody who literally zaps your energy dry, judith orloff, md, a psychiatrist on the university of california-los angeles psychiatric clinical faculty, tells nbc news better.there are different types and they fall on a spectrum, she adds. theres the narcissistic drama queen friend whos always dealing with one crisis or another. theres the manipulative coworker who doesnt care who she steps on to get ahead. and theres the downright psychopathic criminal.what energy vampires all have in common is they feed on (or manipulate) people who will give them air space and open ears.unsurprisingly those most often targeted are the sensitive, compassionate, always-see-the-good-in-people types of people, orloff says. (shes also author of a book on the topic, \"the empaths survival guide: life strategies for sensitive people\".)energy vampire isnt a clinical term or diagnosis currently. but christiane northrup, md, author of the recent book \"dodging energy vampires,\" explains that energy vampire characteristics do tend to map to cluster b personality disorders  the ones where people tend to have dramatic, overly emotional or erratic thinking or behavior  which are fairly common, she says. (northrup spent 25 years practicing obstetrics and gynecology and now focuses on being an advocate for womens health and wellness.)cluster b includes people with antisocial, borderline and narcissistic personality disorders, and each of those is a clinical diagnosis with measurable specific traits spelled out in the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders, fifth edition (dsm-5), the diagnostic playbook psychologists use to identify mental health disorders.theres no chemical imbalance in the brain or anything like that, she adds. but individuals either lack or have a somewhat misguided conscience or moral compass, she says.according to northrup, energy vampires also include the extreme end of the spectrum of these personality disorders, namely psychopaths and sociopaths. they are often talented, but manipulative, too. they feed on your good, loving and compassionate energy, and they have no qualms about doing so, she says. they make you feel guilty, as if youre never giving enough.who is and whos not an energy vampire?while psychopaths, according to northrups definition, are one type of energy vampire, theyre certainly not the most common ones you might come across. think of any names that came to mind as you read the first part of this article. thats a good way to start identifying the energy vampires in your life, northrup says.not everyone with narcissistic traits or who enjoys being the life of the party is necessarily an energy vampire, she adds. there are some who recognize what theyre doing if you call them out on it and stop. energy vampires (those who could be diagnosed with a character disorder), however, are addicted to that kind of behavior and the attention they get from it.generally theyre self-centered people and theyre somewhat manipulative, northrup says. on some level they all know what theyre doing and they do it because it works.the non-energy vampires of the world give them the benefit of the doubt that they really do need your love, compassion and good chi, northrup adds, because we think they think like we do. and thats why energy vampires are so dangerous, she says.this is where orloffs definition of energy vampire differs. she says theyre so dangerous because energy vampires may not know what theyre doing (other than the truly manipulative psychopaths and sociopaths). some energy vampires may have inherited those character traits from a parent and theyre unaware of how their behavior affects others, she says.spending too much time with energy vampires can make you sickwhat makes energy vampires so toxic is that they can be sources of chronic stress, says northrup. especially if the energy vampire is someone you cant avoid  such as a spouse, a parent or a boss  constantly having your energy drained by that individual is a stressor, she says. youre constantly walking on eggshells around that person; waiting for the next shoe to drop.and that type of chronic stress is well known to have pretty deleterious effects on multiple systems in the body, including the immune, cardiovascular, neuroendocrine and central nervous systems.evidence shows that people under chronic stress are at a higher risk of chronic problems ranging from autoimmune diseases to heart disease, obesity and depression.theyre a health risk, northrup says about the energy vampires in our lives.how to vanquish energy vampires (or at least not get sucked dry)remember that when it comes to looking out for your own energy and well-being around energy vampires, youre not being selfish, youre practicing good self-care, orloff says. doing so keeps you from getting overwhelmed, anxious and sick. heres how:cut them out of your life (if you can). if theyre not someone you cant avoid (such as a boss or a family member), cut off contact with the person, northrup says. if its an ex-spouse who you still need to communicate with  perhaps if you have children  communicate as little as possible and use technology to your advantage, she adds. text or use a messaging app, rather than making plans over the phone.set boundaries. know what types of activities work well and which ones dont, and plan accordingly. maybe going out to lunch or coffee is bearable, but inviting that individual to your house is just too much. set beginning and end times, northrup says.lower expectations. if youre dealing with a narcissist, know that these people are not capable of being empathetic toward you, orloff says. so dont expect that from them. avoid bearing your soul to that person to protect yourself from feeling disappointed when they dont meet you with the understanding youre looking for.be too tired for them. northrup calls this strategy broken wing. when an energy vampire tries to bend your ear, tell them you feel under the weather or really tired. they will go to another source immediately, northrup says. they do not want to be around somebody who doesnt have energy to give back.grey rock them. act like a grey rock around them, northrup says. dont entertain them. dont give them energy. dont give them the response (whether it be your open ear, your sympathy or your support) that theyre looking for and theyll lose interest.know the difference between venting and dumping. everybody needs to voice frustration now and again. energy vampires constantly dump their frustrations, irritations, annoyances, bad days and negative feelings on others. its really important to know the difference between venting (is accountable to their role in the problem and looking for a solution or resolution) and dumping (think unintelligible rant), orloff says. so you can sit limits and not just sit there and take it.do not overreact. remain cool, calm and collected when dealing with an energy vampire, northrup says. losing it can cause an energy vampire to do the same and make you feel worse about yourself.make sure you have a way to reality check. determine which of your friends or family can be your reality check on the situation  trusted individuals who can level set with you when the energy vampire in your life is acting up, northrup says. yes, theyre acting crazy. yes, it looks like theyre getting away with murder. those trusted reality check friends can help affirm that what you feel in your gut is right, and not the other way around.say no nicely. its ok to not invite people to interact with you. and its ok to say no to people, orloff says. and remember, no is a sentence in and of itself, she adds. you can say it in a nice way thats not impolite or uncaring, she says. you can be a loving, compassionate person and still stick up for yourself. you dont need to be a doormat.more mental health helpwhat is gaslighting? and how do you know if its happening to you?how to worry betterhow to take a mental health daya daily ritual that will help you de-stress (in just 5 minutes)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

name: gretchen woodage: 51residence: decatur, txjob: owns a residential house cleaning businessmarital status: marriedpeak weight: 298 poundscurrent weight: 150 poundsgretchen wood started her life battling health problems. she was born with underdeveloped kidneys, and her doctors told her parents she might not survive. if she did, she would eventually need a kidney transplant.at age 13, her health problems worsened  she was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. i became really angry with god. why would he choose this for me? she says. in early adulthood she started to gain weight. i wasnt exercising. i wasnt eating right. i was being 20, she says.she had some success losing weight with weight watchers and exercise, but when she stopped, the weight came back. in her late 20s she dropped from a size 18 to a size 10 with herbalife, but decided she didnt want to drink shakes and take supplements for the rest of her life, along with taking insulin for her diabetes. the weight came back with a vengeance, she says. i became depressed, and i turned to food for comfort. i turned to the exact thing that was making me fat.health problems worsenin 2003 she noticed a worrisome symptom  her thighs felt like they were burning. she mentioned it to a friend who was a dialysis nurse and her friend started to tear up. she recognized it as a sign that woods kidneys were failing. i thought, well at least i made it to age 37, wood says.she needed dialysis, three times a week for four hours at a time. she centered her life around it, doing her errands, laundry and housework the day after, when she had enough energy. the day before dialysis and the day of i was just wiped out, she says.at this point in my life i turned back to god. i put my full faith and trust in him. i knew i would either live by a machine for years to come or he would take me when it was time. i was at peace with either, she says.the gift of a second chanceafter three months of dialysis, wood got an amazing gift  a kidney transplant. secretly, her brother had gone through the process of finding out if he could donate a kidney. he didnt tell me anything because if he was not a match he didnt want me to be disappointed. i was just in tears. i was hugely thankful and overwhelmed. it was the greatest gift he could give me, she says.she had the transplant surgery in may 2004. it brought out the fighting spirit in me, she says. i got a second chance at life, and i was going to do it right. i was going to find the skinny woman again.12 years of weight gainbut depression  a potential side effect of the antirejection medications she had to take  struck again. and the drugs can also contribute to weight gain. over the course of 12 years woods weight climbed up to 298 pounds.i gave up on the idea that i would ever be a size 10 again. i would look at myself and cry. i didnt like the way i looked. i was uncomfortable and embarrassed. i thought, well, this is the path god created for me. im going to be a fat girl, she says.finding the fighter withinby the summer of 2016 she was ready to make a change. i got on my knees and prayed to jesus. he told me he created me to be a fighter and i could do whatever it took to be the wonder woman i could be, she says. it really changed my mind. i went from focusing on wah, wah, wah, poor me to im going to find the thin girl and the fighter in me. i know shes there.wood researched weight-loss surgery and decided that the sleeve procedure  where your stomach is surgically reduced to a smaller size  was the right choice for her. i had tried most everything else, but i always gained the weight back. this is a much more permanent method. it forces me to eat less, she says.but surgery alone isnt enough to guarantee lasting weight loss. lifestyle changes are key as well. following the instructions of her weight-loss team at baylor scott &amp; white medical center  grapevine, she started working out with a personal trainer so she would be strong and healthy for the surgery. in december 2016, when she had the surgery, she was down to 272 pounds.after the surgery, she says it felt strange at first to eat such small amounts. she was taking tiny sips of liquid that amounted to just two tablespoons. but as she healed everything became easier.after a month you could say gretchen got her groove back. the weight just started melting off. i was following everything they told me to do, which was to walk and get your protein and liquids in, she says. every time someone saw me they said, holy cow, youre melting away, i was going to goodwill a lot because if i bought a pair of jeans in two weeks time they were too big. my weight loss would plateau sometimes, but it didnt freak me out because i was told to expect that.working in workoutsshe slowly added more exercise, and in september 2017 a friend from church suggested she try camp gladiator, a boot camp workout program. at first i thought, no way, are you kidding? but the first two weeks were free, so i decided to try it. i felt myself getting stronger, so i decided to sign up. that was almost a year ago. now my arms are strong  ive got guns. i look down and i think, i did that. with gods help i did that. i found the wonder woman inside me.wood now weighs 150 pounds and wears that size 10 she thought she would never fit into again. my surgeons goal weight for me was 180, but that wasnt good enough for me, she says.finding healthy outletsimportantly, she no longer turns to food for comfort. most of it really is in my mind. i changed my attitude about food and changed my attitude about how i want to live. i take my dog for a walk, or take a nap, or watch a funny movie on tv or spend time with god, she says.she can easily list ways the weight loss has changed her life. with type 1 diabetes, she still needs insulin to control her blood sugar, but shes cut her dose in half. she can do pushups. she can fit through a turnstile with ease. she can clean a house in one-third less time without being exhausted. she can buy whatever car she wants, without making sure she can fit.inspired by her success, her husband had weight-loss surgery as well. hes doing really well, and i love celebrating the small victories with him, she says.gretchens typical daily mealsbreakfast: usually a protein shake.lunch: a green salad topped with chicken, fish, ground beef or ground turkey.dinner: yogurt with fruit and nuts and another protein shake.snacks: small portions of cheese sticks, cottage cheese, yogurt or, occasionally, ice cream.it sounds like i eat like a rabbit, but im fine with it, she says.more weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its the last full month of summer and youre stuck toiling away in your office on a hot friday afternoon, while your friends instagrams boast pix of them lollygagging near a body of water. sadly, youre likely among the many employees without the benefit of summer fridays.the good news is, summer fridays are catching on fast among companies and organizations. according to a 2017 survey from gartner (formerly ceb global)  a consultancy that offers advisory services and technology solutions to companies  42 percent of the 220 companies interviewed instituted a summer fridays policy, double the amount since their 2015 survey.during the summer, employees often try to get away for longer weekends to spend time with friends and family. by giving employees summer fridays, companies are able to give to their employees the gift of time to make it easier to spend more time doing this, says brian kropp, group vice president for gartners hr practice.according to a recent gartner survey, 42 percent of the 220 companies interviewed instituted a summer fridays policy, double the amount since their 2015 survey.contrary to some schools of thought, shaving a few hours off of the end of a friday workday doesnt result in a productivity loss. the concern that most employers have is that by giving employees summer fridays off, that productivity will fall, says kropp.net, summer fridays can actually improve, not decrease, productivity. we are giving off the lowest productivity time period, rather than a high productivity time period. second, if employees know they are getting this time off, they will spend time earlier in the week making sure all of the critical work gets done. third, when employees get this time off, they are actually more engaged overall, and in turn more productive for all of the other hours when they are at work, he explains.i have been in business for 20 years, working in publishing, tv, fashion, advertising, branding, real estate, music, construction, not-for profit, professional sports and many other industries, and i have yet to hear any of my clients complain of the detrimental effects of summer fridays, says alan ibbotson, founder of the trampoline group, a consultancy that works with companies on leadership development and employee engagement.our remote-working, always on culture has long since proven productivity has nothing to do with the number of hours spent in the office. if youre hiring well and nurturing a healthy company culture, you will simply not be competitive as an employer if you dont offer some kind of flexible working policy that includes time-off perks your employees can use over the summer.contrary to some schools of thought, shaving a few hours off of the end of a friday workday doesnt result in a productivity loss.by offering summer fridays (a grand total of 7 days of pto over 14 weeks, between memorial and labor day, given at a time when employees enjoy it the most), ibbotson says companies benefit by:winning the best talentboosting morale, motivation and productivityshowing they care about employee well-being and work-life balanceboosting teamwork and camaraderie because colleagues make tradeoffs with each other to ensure office coveragemaking a case for summer fridaysso, if you dont get summer fridays, whats the best way to advocate for them?the best strategy for an employee to broach the subject is to find a talent competitor that does, then go back to their employer and suggest they offer this benefit as a way to stay competitive in the labor market, says kropp.ibbotson recommends building your case for summer fridays by:getting a handle on your companys flexible hours policies. some companies dont institute a formal summer friday program because its effectively already covered by existing flex-working practices and to do so would actually cause confusion, says ibbotson.finding out if the company has ever tried summer fridays before. if it didnt work, find out why. says ibbotson, understand where any resistance might come from if you expect to overcome it.examine what competing companies are doing and present the contrast. if competitors arent offering summer fridays, you can still suggest the concept in the name of attracting more talent. use this information to build your case.armed with your information (and the support of key colleagues), arrange a meeting with management to suggest a 30-day summer fridays trial. this makes it easy for your employer to give it a shot and a little bit harder for them to say no, says ibbotson.if youre in management and anticipate resistance, offer to work with your employer to help frame out the policy so it causes the least amount of disruption  maybe offering the 30-day trial to colleagues while sitting out the policy yourself. they will love you for being their champion and you wont look like you were doing it just to get some time off for yourself, says ibbotson. youll also be able to assess the program more objectively and suggest improvements before advocating for something more permanent. showing these true leadership skills can only be good for your career.who knows? if all goes well by next august, you might be stashing a beach towel in your desk, along with that aluminum water bottle.time off tipshow to take a mental health day save $520 (or more) on your next flight with these 4 airfare hackshow to take a vacation now, no matter how much time off you havewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

i am on a quest to find a therapist, and not just any therapist, but the right one. this may sound like a common sense requirement, but mental healthcare can be challenging to access (nbc news better recently ran this article on how to get professional help when youre on a tight budget and/or dont have health insurance). ive had a couple of great therapists in my many years living with mental health struggles, but ive also had a couple of lousy ones, or more specifically, therapists who i just didnt jibe with or feel were helping me. these relationships often went on longer than they should have, resulting in my sense of us both having wasted our time (and definitely my money).goodness of fit is everything [in therapy], says dr. colleen cira, a licensed clinical psychologist. research is clear that the #1 determining factor in whether or not a client gets better from therapy is based on how strong their relationship is with their therapist. if you dont like your therapist, youre not going to get better, regardless of how well-trained they are.but how do you know if its a good fit? heres what therapists themselves have to say on the matter.ask yourself questions to determine how you want therapy to workwhat does therapy mean to you? what areas of your life do you want to explore and how? do you want to talk about your family, or would you rather focus on a very specific past trauma or would you just like someone to talk with about whatever might be troubling you that week? the answers to these questions may change over time, but when you first go into therapy, ideally you should have some picture of what you want.you should know what you want to work on [when beginning therapy], says dr. cira. do you feel really strong that you dont want to focus on your past and only the present? do you want to focus more on things that have happened to you in the past? do you want someone to help you solve your problems or someone who will really sit with you in your pain or both? these are all things you should ask yourself that will help guide your search.seek therapists with specialties that match your needsonce you know what sort of stuff you want to hash out in therapy, look for therapists that specialize in those areas. for instance, id like to work on treating my panic disorder and depression, so i should reach out to therapists that cite these disorders as key areas of focus.try to look for a therapist that specializes in a specific disorder or the symptoms that [youre] experiencing, says jamie kreiter, lcsw and the founder of jamie kreiter therapy. the therapist should be versed in different treatment modalities. for example, a client may be looking to learn new cognitive coping skills and therefore, a therapist who is experienced in cognitive behavioral therapy would be a better fit than a therapist that uses psychoanalytic approaches.david lim, md, phd, chief medical officer at quartet health, gives a breakdown of provider types:a psychiatrist and psychiatric nurse practitioner offer medication management but typically not talk therapy.a psychologist (phd and psyd), on the other hand, provides psychological testing and sometimes talk therapy, but not medication. in a few states, however, there are medical psychologists which have undergone additional training qualifying them to prescribe medications when indicated (idaho, louisiana, new mexico, illinois, and iowa).more often, talk therapy is provided by a licensed clinical social worker (lcsw or licsw), mental health counselor (lmhc), professional counselor (lpc) or marriage and family therapist (lmft). all of these professionals are able to provide talk therapy services and have received similar training.what degree they hold shouldnt be a top concernall therapists must be public about their their credentials, so definitely check for that  but unless you know you need a certain type of educational background, you neednt get too hung up on this.dont get obsessed about whether your therapist has an m.d., a ph.d., or an m.s.w, says keith humphreys, professor of psychiatry at stanford university. ample research shows that type of degree doesnt predict outcome in therapy.empower the process of elimination by knowing what you dont likeif you dont know what you need, then think about what you dont need (or like) and use that knowledge to help narrow your search.do the therapists theoretical orientations and how they practice specifically match and align with your own values? if just reading their description on how they practice online doesnt sit well with you that is a good indicator that it will not be a good fit, says erica hornthal, a licensed clinical psychotherapist and board certified dance/movement therapist.look for someone who challenges, validates and normalizes youideally, youll want to interview a few therapists before deciding on one (pro-tip: sometimes you can do this over the phone, briefly, at no charge). see if they have these qualities recommended by clinical therapist lynn zakeri:you want someone smarter than you are. i dont mean higher iq or degrees or something measurable, [but] someone who knows what puzzle pieces to look for when you didnt even know the pieces existed. someone who asks the questions you need to consider, but also asks the question you never even considered asking.someone who validates, but challenges. for example, [saying something like] you have shown me so much self-respect in your stories about work and your relationship with steve, so why when you are with stacy did you do xyz? help me understand how that process went. did it feel good? etc.someone who normalizes you. you are not crazy.ditch an insensitive therapisti once had a therapist who said something pretty insulting about my dad, and it had nothing to do with my troubles but instead with his jewish culture. she quickly defended it by asserting that she was raised jewish. this was a red flag i tried to see past at her insistence, but i knew then and there i could not trust her anymore. this same therapist also clung hard to my weakness but never spoke to my strengths, something i then accepted without any problem because i was really comfortable with feeling bad about myself.take caution in therapists who are insensitive to your beliefs, cultural practices, or [who] just focus on challenges to change without recognizing and supporting or building on your strengths, says mayra mendez, ph.d., lmft, a licensed psychotherapist and program coordinator for intellectual and developmental disabilities and mental health services at providence saint johns child and family development center. the most effective therapy experience is one that supports the client in recognizing their capabilities and using strengths to mitigate challenges.trust your intuition and look for that visceral feelingperhaps the most important qualification in all this? your own intuition.listen to your intuition, says humphreys. if you feel instinctively unsafe with a therapist, that will probably inhibit the progress you will make. in contrast, if you feel you click with a therapist, thats a good sign that you will be able to build a working alliance with them.jor-el caraballo, a licensed therapist, wellness coach and co-creator of viva wellness, notes that while there are measures that are clinical in nature there is also a visceral feeling of just being comfortable enough to sit in a room with someone for the therapy hour. that cant be replaced and if you dont feel comfortable enough in a few sessions then its probably best to tell your therapist this and work toward moving on.if this therapist cant meet your needs, they must refer you elsewherei used to fear parting ways with therapists partly because i was afraid that i would be left stranded without care, but if a therapist is following their code of ethics, this shouldnt be a problem.an ethical therapist will direct you to someone else if they themselves cant meet your needs, says humphreys, with caraballo adding: if your therapist reacts negatively or refuses to provide alternative referrals (which they are ethically bound to offer) then you can rest assured that youve made the best decision in moving on.more mental health helphow defusing my thoughts helped me claw my way back from debilitating anxiety7 steps for getting through a panic attackhow to worry betterhow to take a mental health daya daily ritual that will help you de-stress (in just 5 minutes)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

finding yourself doesnt always have to involve a transformational life experience or pilgrimage  la eat, pray, love. (though pizza in naples also never hurts.) epiphanies can come on a random tuesday at the office, over coffee with a mentor, or when stepping up to a podium to give your first big speech.you cant predict when your inner voice will drop some knowledge that changes the way you think about life and work. when that happens, embrace it.but dont take my word for it. these five female ceos all found the strength they needed when they tuned into their most authentic selves. heres how they did it  in their own words  and their best advice for those of us still climbing the ladder.i learned to embrace my own authenticity. christa quarles, ceo of opentable, the worlds largest provider of online restaurant reservationswhen i first started my career, i was working in a male-dominated office, and i felt that i needed to show up as a man in order to be accepted by men. i thought my voice needed to sound like a mans voice so that i would be included. i felt that if i wasnt included  if i backed down or complained  then i wouldnt get ahead.my realization wasnt an overnight thing. it was a slower evolution that grew as i gained more power and became a leader. leaders have to step forward and say, this matters, and im going to do something about it.since i began bringing my whole authentic self to work, i began getting more out of my team  both with regard to respect and productivity. it made me realize that if you arent capable of being fully authentic, you arent going to succeed as a leader. people have a sixth sense, and they can sniff it out of you arent being true to who you are.her advice: to really get to know yourself, try doing a mental review of your workday every night, especially if things have challenged you or made you uncomfortable. ask yourself, was i acting in accordance with my personal values today? spend some time with the answer and see how it makes you feel.i stopped letting others own my ideas.janice bryant howroyd, founder ceo of the actone group, the largest woman-owned human resources solutions firm in the countrywhen my company was going after big contracts and clients, i would often give my strategies and solutions to other people on my team to deliver. i wasnt sure how receptive some clients would be to a [message from a] black woman, and i wanted us to be successful. but about five years ago, i was working late one night, and my daughter said to me, mom, why do you always give [your ideas] to him to push forward? why arent you owning [them] yourself? thats when it clicked for me, that i was setting a tone for my daughter that i was only good enough to be in the back. thats when i decided id earned the right to step up. and not only did i have a right to do it, i had a responsibility to do it.her advice: weve all heard for years about the self-made man, but today the self-made person is not a truth. nobody succeeds alone. we are all part of a much greater fabric. so its okay to look to others for help, but by the same token, dont let anyone steal your power and make your story theirs.i was rejected from my dream job, but i didnt let it quiet my resolve.maureen lippe, founder &amp; ceo of lippe taylor, a pr and communications agencyworking at vogue was my dream job, so i went in for an interview feeling completely prepared. but i learned when i got there that you had to pass a typing test, which i failed. i told them, ill be back, and i immediately signed up for classes at a secretarial school. six months later, i went back to vogue able to both type and take dictation. not only did i get the job, i learned that you cant let every rejection ruffle your feathers. a no may mean that one road is blocked, but you can always take a detour and get on another path. you have to be persistent. the worst thing that you can do is internalize rejection and let it impact your feelings of self worth. failure should teach you survival skills, not resignation.her advice: look failure squarely in the eye and ask yourself, what did i learn? with some failures, the door is closed and you have to move on. but with others you have to keep trying. i love when people come back to interview with me a couple of years after they were turned down. oftentimes theyve matured, and grown into a better candidate, and were happy to hire them.i learned how to speak up. beth gerstein, co-founder and co-ceo of brilliant earth, an ethically sourced bridal and fine jewelry companyin my first few big meetings with executives  who were all older males  i was nervous. i had to force myself to speak up and contribute to the conversation in what was an intimidating environment. one day i realized that being shy and retreating was the easy thing to do  and i never wanted to be the person who took the easy way out. i found that i didnt have to be the loudest voice at the table to share my opinion and have it taken seriously.her advice: come prepared to all meetings. know what youre there to discuss, and if you have something to add, speak up. if needed, give yourself a pep talk before the meeting, and memorize a couple of your talking points so youre free to make eye contact with others in the room when the opportunity arises to speak.i found a mentor who could guide me.autumn manning, co-founder and ceo of youearnedit, an austin, tx- based human resources technology companywhen i was pregnant with my first child, i worried about balancing my life as a thought leader and a thoughtful mother. i wanted to find find a mentor who had done it successfully, so i reached out to a woman who was very, very senior. i shot way above where i had any business asking for help, but if you dont ask for what you want, youll never get it. i wrote to her and said, you embody what i find to be successful both at work and at home. could we meet once a month to discuss work and motherhood? she said yes, and her influence has been one of the greatest in my career. she helped me learn how to be a good mom and a good leader, and not apologize for either of those things.her advice: surround yourself with a diverse set of mentors and advocates. they will come in handy throughout the course of your career. dont be afraid to shoot higher than you should  senior executives often love sharing their wisdom with others, and theyll respond really well to someone who asks simply, can i learn from you?with kathryn tuggletake your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to build a work wardrobe on a budgethow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

maybe youve noticed: interest rates for personal savings accounts at some financial institutions are going up.yes, the rates at most banks and credit unions remain historically low  the national average for savings accounts is only 0.09 percent, according to bankrate.com. but better rates are being offered, if you take the time to look for them.bankrates best savings accounts &amp; rates survey shows:the average annual percentage yield (apy) for a one-year certificate of deposit (cd) right now is 2.41 percent.the top-yielding nationally available one-year cd is 2.55 percent apy. the last time the interest rate for a one-year cd was higher was june 2009.you can find money market accounts with an apy as high as 2 percent.the best high-yield savings accounts are paying 2.05 percent apy. the last time top-yielding savings accounts were above 2 percent was sept. 2009.were kind of going back to the good old days when people actually got rewarded for saving money, said liz weston, personal finance columnist for nerdwallet and author of the book, your credit score. because interest rates have been down so long, this looks like up to us. it really isnt that much, but you do see some movement in interest rates, finally, weston added.were kind of going back to the good old days when people actually got rewarded for saving money.but as the rates on cds, money market and high-interest savings accounts go up, these no-risk cash investments are becoming more appealing. are we at the point where it make sense to increase your cash savings?well, its easier to justify and it certainly makes more sense now than it did a few years ago, when savings accounts were paying nothing, said matthew frankel, who writes personal finance and investment advice for the motley fool. you can still get a better long-term return from bonds, but cash gives you much more flexibility in your investment strategy to take advantage of opportunities as they come up.frankel told nbc news better that hes made a slight tweak to his investment portfolio based on the higher interest rates.\"generally, i aim for a 70/30 stock and bond allocation in my investment portfolio  70 percent in stocks, 30 percent in bonds, he said. now that cash is going up and stocks are very expensive, historically speaking, i have modified that to 70 percent stock, 20 percent bonds and 10 percent cash. i did that because i want to be able to take advantage of opportunities when certain prices go down, and its a lot easier to justify doing that when the yields you get from savings accounts and bonds are now much more comparable than theyve been in recent years.as the federal reserve continues to hike rates, returns on cash investments are likely to continue rising, which is why weston advises against tying up your money in a long-term cd in order to get a slightly higher return.youre never going to beat inflation with a savings account or a cd. these are the kind of investments where you put money aside knowing that youre going to lose value over time, weston told nbc news better. so personally, i wouldnt lock it up for too long. youre just putting that money at risk of inflation and its entirely possible well be seeing higher rates in the not too distant future.cash is not for long-term investmentsbuying stocks, even through mutual funds, has inherent risks. but historically, stocks have delivered higher returns over time than any cash investment.and yet, millennials, unlike other generations, prefer cash as a long-term investment. bankrate asked american adults to choose the best place to park money they wont need for 10 years or more. according to the survey:cash was the top choice for millennials (ages 18-37).thirty percent of millennials chose cash as compared to only 21 percent of those 38 and older.the stock market is the top choice (37 percent) for those 38 and older, but only for 23 of millennials.its not like millennials who put their savings in cash are getting a good return. they have the lowest propensity of any generation to be earning more than 1.5 percent on their savings, the bankrate report noted. theyre most likely to be earning zero interest, or not even know what rate theyre earning.millennials, unlike other generations, prefer cash as a long-term investment.for investment horizons of longer than 10 years, the stock market is an entirely appropriate investment. cash is not, said bankrate chief financial analyst greg mcbride. cash investments are entirely appropriate for our short-term needs  whether its an emergency fund, the money were putting aside for a down payment on a home, a car purchase or even upcoming tuition payments. but cash is not appropriate for those longer time horizons, the things that are a decade or more away  whether its an education for your newborn or your retirement. over those long periods of time, cash investments are not going to grow your buying power.mcbride told nbc news better that hes concerned that many millennials are so risk-averse that they dont want to invest in the stock market. by hunkering down in safe-haven investments millennials will not be able to accumulate the nest egg needed for a financially secure retirement, he said.remember: while current market volatility can be nerve-wracking, if your financial horizon is decades in the future, the trends for stocks is clearly upwards.markets are volatile day to day, no doubt about it, and thats why its not appropriate for short-term needs, mcbride said. but your biggest risk over the long term is investing too conservatively. over the long run, youll see your returns whittled away by inflation; youre not going to see any growth in buying power from those safe-haven cash investments.get more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 daysneed to save money fast? try a spending banwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when i quit soda a decade ago, i coped by drinking seltzer water with juice. it gave me the sugary fix along with the carbonated rush. gradually, i removed the fruit juice and opted for the seltzer solo. over the following three months, i lost at least five pounds and found that my complexion and energy levels had improved. perhaps this had to do not only with the elimination of all the sugar and sodium i was ingesting with all that ginger ale, but with the amount of water (albeit carbonated) that i had replaced it with. i was downright chugging the stuff all day.a decade later, ive upped my plain water consumption, but come meal times, im still hooked on seltzer (typically unflavored, with a wedge of lemon). i probably drink it now more than ever since i quit alcohol (a choice that resulted in shedding another five pounds) and have made seltzer with a splash of cranberry juice my standard order at bars. but, like with all things that seem too good to be true, i have worries about the possible cons of seltzer. ive heard that it can ruin your enamel, disrupt digestion and be less hydrating than regular water, for which i often substitute it.fueled by my own anxieties about what the heck im actually drinking, and hopeful to get the facts straight, i turned to certified nutritionists, registered dietitians and a dentist to explain exactly what seltzer is and what it means for our health.seltzer definedfirst things first, lets establish what seltzer actually is:seltzer water is water that has been infused with carbon dioxide under high pressure, which creates the bubbles, says toni marinucci, ms, rdn, a registered dietitian with a masters degree in nutrition and dietetics. in simpler terms, seltzer is carbonated water therefore the ingredients should just read carbonated water. if it is a flavored seltzer then the ingredients should read: carbonated water, natural flavor.the difference between seltzer and club soda is mainly sodiumclub soda is also water-based, but it tends to have a lot of other minerals including sodium bicarbonate, sodium citrate, potassium sulfate and disodium phosphate, says marinucci, adding that these added ingredients, though safe to consume in club soda, affects the taste slightly [such that] it doesnt taste as clean as seltzer water.because of the sodium content, you might want to avoid club soda (and definitely check with a doctor if you have any underlying health issues that call for restricted sodium). people who are salt-sensitive or being mindful of added salt in their overall diet should be aware of the difference and make an educated choice, says maya feller, ms, rd, cdn of maya feller nutrition, a registered dietitian nutritionist.plain seltzer is as hydrating as watergood news for us seltzer lovers, this magical tonic (a bit hyperbolic, sure, but certainly how i feel about it) has the same hydrating benefits as plain water  if you drink it plain.plain seltzer without additional additives can be as hydrating as water, says feller. the cdc lists plain seltzer and water as a smart beverage choice and some research has found that there is no difference with regard to hydration status when a person consumes still or carbonated water without additives.you can drink it during exercise, but be mindfulif seltzer is as hydrating as water, can you drink it when you work out? yes, feller says, but it really depends on your carbonation tolerance: i would suggest that each person see if they are able to tolerate the carbonation during vigorous activity.having seltzer water can keep a person hydrated however if the carbonation causes gas or bloating it may also cause cramps and can disrupt the persons ability/comfort to exercise, adds marinucci. it is also more filling than plain water so a person may not drink as much as they need if they choose seltzer over plain water.from my own experience drinking seltzer in a pilates class today, i dont recommend it. the seltzer made me feel like burping and threw off my breathing flow.your teeth could suffer, but moderation and washing down with water helpsseltzer is indeed, harsh on your teeth, but not if you drink it right (and in moderation).the problem with seltzer is that it can be acidic, says dr. lee gause, a dentist who specializes in implant and cosmetic dentistry and founder of smile design manhattan. teeth fare better in a neutral or even slightly alkaline solution. different seltzer brands have different levels of acidity, primarily stemming from both the citric acid that gives seltzers the bubbles and zesty lemony taste. even unflavored seltzers contain a carbonic acid that gives it its bubbles.over time, that acidity can lead to enamel erosion.i have seen a lot of patients whose main cause of erosion was an overly acidic diet from citrus to sodas and lack of regular or alkaline water, says dr. gause. all of that being said, [seltzer] is safe to consume in appropriate volumes  keep it to once a day with meals, at a maximum, and be sure to wash everything down with standard water.grause also recommends using a straw if you want to be extra careful, as this allows the seltzer to bypass your teeth.when to cut down on seltzerdr. gause recommends skipping the seltzer if you already have an acidic diet, consuming lots of lemon juice, pomegranate, grapefruits, tomatoes, blueberries, pineapples, apples, corn, mushrooms, broccoli, etc.might i add that these are all foods i eat in great quantity, so i certainly need to cut down. i also have ibs, and the carbonation in seltzer can cause further irritation.people who have ibs and or a sensitive gi may want to steer clear of carbonated water, says feller, with marinucci adding, if someone is experiencing digestive symptoms like feeling gassy/bloated/has a hiatal hernia and continues to consume seltzer with symptoms then that would be considered too much.also, if a person is using it to fill up and intentionally skip multiple meals/snacks then that is too much because every skipped meals/snacks are missed opportunities to fuel the body with nutrient dense foods, says marinucci.make your own, so you know whats in itreading labels is always wise, but with seltzer  in particular flavored seltzer  it can be tricky to know exactly what youre getting. the term natural flavor has been a hot debate, with even the fda calling for more transparency, given that the labeling is vague at best, and doesnt illuminate the processes that may be involved. seltzer brands like la croix, which famously touts no calories, artificial sweeteners or sodium says its flavors are derived from the natural essence oils extracted from the named fruit boasted on the can. how exactly this happens is a proprietary mystery.no disrespect to la croix here (that grapefruit one is my best friend at barbecues, and i love that its not too fizzy or too sweet), but if you want to know exactly whats in your seltzer, make your own at home (i use a sodastream, but there are other kits out there).the simplest ingredients possible is a good rule of thumb, says dr. gause. you can easily make your own without having to spend on branded water, [and] know exactly where it came from.in any event, seltzer is absolutely the best sparkling beverage choice, especially if youre watching calories or looking to up your hydration.for someone who regularly consumes soda, having seltzer water can be an excellent alternative because it is calorie-free, sugar-free and chemical-free, says marinucci. the naturally flavored seltzers may not taste as sweet as regular or diet soda, however in time, a persons taste buds can adjust and they will actually begin to [like] it. for a little extra natural flavor and nutrition, squeeze some fresh fruit like lemon and enjoy.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

are you okay? you look tired.i cant come close to counting how many times someone has said this to me, and no matter the empathetic tone in their voice, its never a compliment. basically, theyre saying i look like crap  specifically my face. my eyes are puffy and red with dark half-moons below. my skin is blotchy and my coloring is wan.on these occasions, you could say i didnt get my beauty sleep, (a term that, according to dictionary.com, is defined as sleep before midnight, assumed to be necessary for ones beauty and any extra sleep); but actually what i probably didnt get, was a good nights sleep, period.the act of sleep, doctors concur, plays a chief role in giving one a healthy appearance. this is a fact that many of us can vouch for even if we dont know the science behind it. a new survey by sealy in the uk found that well-rested people reported having brighter eyes (42 percent), a brighter complexion (21 percent), clearer skin (20 percent), fewer wrinkles (17 percent) and improved skin condition (11 percent).what is it about sleep that makes our skin look better, and inversely, why does sleep deprivation take its toll not only on the way we feel, but the way we look, specifically our faces?sleep is a nightly dive into a fountain of youthsleep is incredibly important for physical appearance, dr. mikhail varshavski, aka dr. mike (as well as instagrams hot doctor), an osteopathic doctor tells nbc news better. sleep is a regenerative process where we heal and where our neurons build strong connections. its like a fountain of youth that we dive in to every night.this fountain of youth phenomenon cannot happen while awake, because, as dr. jeffrey durmer, neurologist, systems neuroscientist, sleep medicine physician and chief medical officer of fusion health explains, it requires the highly active process of sleep.when you sleep, youre going through choreographed cycles of rem and non-rem [states] that cant happen when youre awake  even if youre lying down with your eyes closed, dr. durmer says, adding that its largely during non-rem sleep (about four of eight hours of sleep, and usually experienced in the early onset of a deep sleep, he adds), that this skin-repairing process occurs.sleep is natures anti-inflammatoryever twist your ankle, ice it, then go to bed and find the next day the swelling has subsided? the ice may have helped, but the sleep was also crucial, because sleep reduces anti-inflammatory agents.you make anti-inflammatory cytokines while you sleep, which help heal and reduce the impact of damages done throughout the day, says durmer, citing sun exposure and pollution as typical daily skin damagers.our face takes the brunt of sleep deprivation because its so vascularsleep deprivation always seems to show up on our faces first and foremost. why?the face is highly vascularized. our lips are red because of blood itself, as is the blush in our cheeks, durmer notes. when you become sleep deprived the nervous system starts to not regulate the blood vessels very well, [often resulting] in redness in the sclera itself and across the face and neck.those dark circles under your eyes (more noticeable in fairer complexions) are a result of the inflammation and swelling. the tired pallor, also most evident in lighter skin, is owed to the disruption in blood flow distribution that occurs during sleep, dr. durmer adds.sleep is like a facelift for your entire bodywhile we tend to see the evidence of poor sleep most profoundly in our faces, prolonged sleep-deprivation can affect our looks from head to toe.poor sleep results in premature aging. this is because there are three key times that our body releases growth hormone, says dr. jacob teitelbaum, an internist specializing in chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia and pain management, and the author of from fatigued to fantastic.also known as the fountain of youth hormone, optimizing growth hormone keeps us young. it keeps our muscles toned, and our skin at its full thickness. think of it as a healthy facelift for your entire body, including face, breasts and abdominals. sleep [also] plays a critical role in our production of two key hormones that regulate appetite and weight gain. these are leptin and ghrelin. numerous studies have shown that inadequate sleep results in an average 6  pound weight gain and a 30 to 55 percent higher risk of obesity.hacks to perk up your skin after an all-nighterin a perfect world, wed all be getting our required hours of sleep every night, but such a world is not the one most of us live in. sometimes we just dont get those 6.5 to 9 hours adults need (we all fall along that spectrum). long-term sleep deprivation can be serious (and can affect far more than just your looks), and if youre concerned about this, definitely talk with a doctor or two. but for those fluke nights of bad sleep (or none at all), consider the following hacks for a beauty pick-me-up the following day.cold cucumbers (or ice pack) on the eyes. ive always wondered whether cucumber slices on closed eyes has any actual impact on our appearance or if thats just some old-hollywood starlet myth. turns out, they can help, but they have to be chilled. its really just temperature-related, says dr. durmer. cooling effects bring down swelling. you can also use an ice pack.hemorrhoid cream. another old school trick ive heard of, but been skeptical towards, is hemorrhoid cream, which also can reduce swelling under your eyes, durmer says. be frugal and very careful in your application, though. you dont want to get this in your eyes.non-steroidal anti-inflammatories like ibuprofen. we often turn to ibuprofen when we have a minor inflammation, and it usually helps. could it also help calm our puffy faces and baggy eyes? both dr. mike and dr. durmer doubt anything under the recommended dosages would go very far, skin-wise, but they dont dispute the possibility. its worth a shot, especially if youre also feeling achy from sleep deprivation.scrubs, tinted moisturizers and antioxidants. monique lucas, rn and chief nursing officer at sona dermatology &amp; medspa, recommends the following skincare staples to rejuvenate a tired complexion: adding a face scrub to your skincare routine to help remove dead skin cells and promote blood flow and a tinted moisturizer is a great way to brighten a dull complexion and hydrate your tired skin.supplement your diet with antioxidants. foods like blueberries and apples are high in antioxidants and can help relax arteries and increase blood flow.dr. heidi a, waldorf, president and owner of waldorf dermatology aesthetics notes that looking tired is the top complaint that she receives from women patients ranging in age from their thirties to their sixties. she has an arsenal of solutions including fillers (and also highlights the importance of a solid skincare regimen), but emphasizes the importance of reducing stress and catching those zs, if you can.naps, meditation, yoga, exercise [and] psychotherapy are all useful, waldorf says. in general, under stress we regress, and there are ill-defined but accepted pathways between the stress response and other skin disorders like acne, eczema and psoriasis, all of which can flare with chronic sleep deprivation.ready to get more zzzs? read these and rest betterhow to adjust your sleep routine during the summer monthshow to use a sleep diary to figure out whats keeping you up at night7 ways to actually get to bed an hour earlier tonightwhy lack of sleep is costing us billions of dollars8 sleep mistakes you can fix tonightwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

time is of the essence these days or, at least, a lack of it. studies show a busy and overworked life has become somewhat of an aspirational status symbol. as a result of all this busyness, the popularity of quick workouts, such as high intensity interval training (h.i.i.t.) or quick workout apps (like the streaks workout app) offer a degree of fitness in just a little longer than a lengthy commercial break. but do they work? and could they be as effective as a more expensive or time-consuming workout?quick workouts really do work  in a pinchscience says yes  at first glance. a 2016 study of sedentary men over 12 weeks examined whether sprint interval training (sit), 1-minute bursts of intense exercise within a 10-minute routine, could improve insulin sensitivity (lowering your blood sugar) and cardiometabolic health as well as a 50-minute workout. and what do you know, the benefits proved similar.michael joyner, m.d., an exercise researcher at the mayo clinic, agrees that short bursts of intense callisthenic exercise can go a long way toward getting fit. a 5-to-10 minute workout, if done consistently, coupled with building as much cardio into your daily life by doing things like walking the dog and taking the stairs every chance you get, can all add up to get you in shape. maybe not in enough shape to do the iron man, but definitely in shape, says joyner.he says the simple act of contracting your muscles can help improve insulin sensitivity and improve heart function. when your heart rate rises and blood pumps through heart vessels to your muscles, the blood flowing through vessels literally rubs against the lining of the blood vessels. this causes the cells that line the blood vessels to release substances that promote both short and long-term relaxation of the vessels and inhibits the formation of plaques. this is good for heart health and protective against high blood pressure and atherosclerosis (artery hardening), joyner explains.glenn gaesser, professor of exercise science and health promotion and director of the healthy lifestyles research center at arizona state university, studied how young adults who engaged in short bursts of high intensity interval exercise and sprint interval exercise had similar results in terms of fat loss and cardiovascular health as those who did longer workouts, or continuous steady-state exercise.we have found that sessions of just 2-minute duration, as long as they are moderately intense (meaning you reach at least 70 percent of your maximum heart rate) performed just once an hour throughout a workday (meaning 8, 2-minute brisk walks, for example) are beneficial for blood glucose control. this might be useful for people at work who dont have time for a real workout, gaesser says.longer workouts can also improve your mental healthjeff halevy, a health and fitness expert from new york city who runs halevy life, an integrated health and wellness gym, says the benefits you can glean from shorter or longer workouts all depend on your personal health and fitness goals.if youre working out to improve cognitive ability or mental well-being, then 20 minutes of continuous exercise is your sweet spot, halevy says. this review of 30 studies, exercising at a moderate pace for 20 minutes, 3 times weekly can help stave off depression and help prevent cognitive decline. if youre looking to improve your quality of life by improving your bodys ability to metabolize oxygen (improving brain, cardiac and lung function) and boost your metabolism, 5-10 minutes might help on days you cant do more, halevy says.short and long workouts work best togetherbut is one option better than the other? as with most things in life, the answer is somewhere in the middle, says halevy. some days you can get away with 5 minutes. some days you can do 20 minutes. if you want to do something for bdnf thats more like miracle grow for your brain (bdnf, or brain-derived neurotropic factor, results in improved brain function) youll need a little more time, exercise and resistance training.similarly, gaesser suggests mixing things up by alternating 30-minute workouts at a near constant intensity, 30-minutes alternating high and low intensity speeds every few minutes, and short 10-minute workouts. he also recommends a 3-to-5 minute warm-up and cool down before and after each workout.and if you want to get your body in shape, joyner says youll still need to watch what you eat. most of us dont get enough physical activity to outrun a bad diet, joyner says. but chronic low levels of physical activity can provide a buffer if someone has a bad day.ultimately, all three experts agree that working out in some way most days  even if just for 5 minutes  is always better than doing nothing. people tend to focus on what they cant do instead of what they can do, says joyner. dont think you need a magic workout. the important thing is that you find something that works for you.try these fitness routines10 core exercises that are better for your back (and body) than crunches5 exercises you can perform anywhere, anytimea 10-minute cardio workout you can do at home5 exercises that will strengthen your back and reduce pain8 exercises trainers never do (and what to do instead)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

once upon a time, there was an old alligator who slept in a river all day. a young crocodile would often swim by, showing off all the small fish he caught, while the elder ignored him. one day, as the old alligator floated lazily along, he suddenly snatched a wildebeest drinking near the rivers edge.when the young alligator asked the elder how he did it, the elder responded: i did nothing.its a story jotform founder and ceo aytekin tank loves to tell.the idea here is that its not a good idea to be always busy, tank tells nbc news better. and its not a good idea to have all this busy work as opposed to maybe spending time thinking about problems you have and thinking about all the opportunities you might have.the entrepreneur, who grew the online form building business into a successful 100+ employee company, says people shouldnt equate busyness with success. he lays out four reasons people waste time on busyness, and what they should do instead.busy people dont want to deal with tough problemspeople would rather get lost in the smaller problems, tank explains, than have to deal with problems that overwhelm them. but ignoring big problems is a big mistake, he says.its so easy to put off those things by spending all your time in busy work, he says.when tank was busy growing his company, he says he let his health go to the wayside. once athletic, he injured his knee and stopped playing sports. he began to gain weight. losing himself in busy work only contributed to his health woes, he recalls. he hired a personal trainer so he couldnt make excuses any longer.so even though i was busy, i had to be there every morning, tank says. so i kept doing it. i made a habit to go to gym every day, and today i am much more healthy compared to those times.busy people suffer from a busyness-is-a-badge-of-honor syndromeour modern-day culture treats busyness as a badge of honor, says tank.people want to be seen as very busy at work because they want to prove to their boss that they are giving everything they have, says tank, and at home you want to seem busy to make sure that your partner knows that you share your responsibilities.the problem with wearing busyness as a badge of honor, says tank, is you often neglect the big stuff.and i think one of the other reasons is sometimes people feel like they dont deserve what they have, he says. and thats why theyre always in this rush to always prove themselves to others and to themselves, so they are in this constant activity to prove themselves.the solution, he says, is to focus on high priorities instead of small problems.busy people believe they are not making progress unless they are busypeople like to feel busy because they believe it means they are making progress, explains tank.but heres the thing  busy work doesnt mean progress, he insists. its only progress if you are working on the high-priority stuff  like really important stuff.instead of obsessing over the small tasks you need to get done, ask yourself: what is the biggest problem i need to solve right now?maybe its an issue with your health, a problem at work or an issue with your family. whatever the matter is, you need to put aside the small stuff and deal with it, says tank.you need to give yourself time  space to pause and reflect and find your biggest constraint  whatever you are dealing with, and focus on solving that constraint and taking care of that opportunity, says tank.sometimes solutions to major problems come to you while you are doing nothing, says tank. in fact, he recalls a night when he and some employees went to a wedding together. while they were at the reception, they thought up a solution to a major problem they had been trying to tackle for months. the idea, recalls tank, just popped up while they were having fun together.even though we had meetings, that idea never came to us, he says. but having that down time and just discussing freely without any expectations, just brought that idea to us.he says the company now has weekly lunch get-togethers and monthly outings where his employees can unwind and have more fun together.busy people are addicted to being busythe ceo has seen his employees waste too much of their time being busy. the problem, he observes, is addiction.ive seen this in some people who came to our company, and they were so addicted to working all the time, remembers tank. and i actually had to tell them stop working at night. stop sending emails at night, because its just not good for you.tank says he was a former busy-addict himself. he used to spend his weekends constantly looking at his phone, he recalls, instead of paying attention to his wife and two young children.and my wife actually said, were not spending good quality time and why are you looking at your phone all the time?he says he solved the problem by turning the internet off on his phone during the weekends.disabling the internet really helped me with having better weekends with my family, says tank.tank says that making more personal time for himself and his employees has taught him that busyness doesnt equal success.what really matters is what you are working on, says tank. are you really taking care of the highest things that are really high priority, or are you putting that off?he adds, if you want to make impact you need to find the things that are the highest priority and you need to spend your time on it.how to embrace the power of doing nothing at all:deal with your most difficult problems. often, we ignore overwhelming problems by burying ourselves in busy work. if you are constantly busy, ask yourself if you are putting off a major dilemma, such as a health concern or an issue at work.get over your busyness-is-a-badge-of-honor mentality. our modern-day culture treats busyness as a badge of honor. but when you waste time on things that arent a priority, you often neglect the bigger problems you need solve.stop thinking you need to be busy to make progress. when we busy ourselves with lots of small things, its easy to believe we are making progress. instead of obsessing over the small tasks you need to get done, ask yourself: what is the biggest problem i need to solve right now?confront your addiction to busyness. when we allow ourselves to be constantly overburdened and overstimulated, busyness becomes an addiction. turn off your phone and any other distractions that may be driving your addiction, and reserve time for yourself where you do nothing at all.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to build a work wardrobe on a budgethow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

say youre redoing your kitchen and you dont have lottery winnings to give you an unlimited budget. cabinets tend to be the costliest item in a renovation, but youd like to have a little money left over for other niceties like a new fridge or a cool backsplash. where do you turn?chances are, youve probably heard about ikea cabinets from one of its cult followers. people who have ikea kitchens tend to love them. whats the big deal and why do they show up everywhere? i wondered the same thing as i started planning a remodel of my own 1890 kitchen that lacked any cabinet system whatsoever. reeling from sticker shock at big-box and cabinet-shop prices, but apprehensive about flat-packed diy cabinets from the swedish giant, i went down an ikea cabinet rabbit hole and am here to share some key takeaways you should know before you take the leap.theyre on sale nowfirst things first. theres a huge sale periodically and its going on right now (it ends sunday, july 29). the ikea kitchen event is a straightforward 15 percent credit on a purchase of $2,000 and up in the form of an ikea gift card to be used on a future purchase. if you dont buy your cabinets during a sale and then  oh no!  the sale launches shortly after? its worth contacting the store. several ikea fans i heard from said they bought just before the sale and the store made good on the special offer.the bad news? everybody else wants an ikea kitchen right about now, so i hear its a bit of a zoo. youll need an extra dose of patience.the basicsikea cabinets come ready to assemble (also known as rta) in flat-packed boxes. theyre frameless, meaning you make use of all the space inside the cabinet, and are designed to hang on a rail system, with adjustable plastic feet on the base so they dont sit directly on the floor. theyre constructed of particleboard wrapped in melamine (pros and cons of that vs. wood are an entire other story). an intrepid and budget-minded diyer can do everything from design to pick-up to assembly to installation  or hire out everything to ikea and their partners or a whole cottage industry of people ready to help every step of the way.ikea cabinets really are as affordable as youve heard  with quality owners rave aboutmegan winfield, an it manager in the hospitality industry in lexington, kentucky, and her husband outfitted a 1930s kitchen a few years ago. we went to big box stores such as lowes and home depot and the prices for semi-custom cabinetry was mind boggling, she says. for a kitchen with two walls of cabinets (upper and lower), they spent in the neighborhood of $5,000. we paid about $1,200 for installation and backsplash and mounting of countertops onto cabinetry. we had estimates from local stores ranging from $7,000 to $12,000 for cabinets with installation, but in many cases that was for what we believed was an inferior quality product.likewise kim sorise, a teacher in louisville, kentucky, also spent about $5,000 for her ikea cabinets. seven years later, its going strong.theres a learning curve, but changes are comingwhile remodelers can use the ikea planning system online, usually people call me because they have attempted to get into the ikea software and realize what an incredible time suck it is, lindsay grote of the design couple in denver told nbc news better. youre taking time to learn software. for people who are savvy in architecture its intuitive, but even if you know the software inside and out like i do theres a ton of time because the software freezes or you lose things  sometimes it takes 10 minutes to move a cabinet.an ikea spokesperson acknowledged the issue. weve definitely heard that complaint, says kathleen wilber, ikeas senior sales leader for kitchens in the u.s., and within the next year were going to be launching a system thats much more friendly. im so excited about this. the finished drawing will look like a photo. and especially helpful for anyone new to kitchen design or feeling overwhelmed: the user will answer five questions and based on answers the system will provide five starter plans.you can design it yourself, but should you?an ikea kitchen can look really bad or really good, grote, who has designed 170 kitchens, says. it is worth your time to hire a designer. there are so many aspects of kitchen design to make sure it functions well. a number of designers like grote specialize in designing ikea kitchens, and of course theres help available at the store itself.come to the store, weve got planning stations to get on there and we can coach you, says wilber. you can make an appointment, [co-workers] can make the plan for you ... if youre efficient and have all your decisions made you should have a plan in the two hours. (check your local store website for email contact information to make the appointment.)theres a next levelwhile ikea has a limited number of cabinet fronts available  we offer about 18-20 options from modern to traditional styles, wilber says  several companies offer fronts designed just for ikea frames. especially for clients with higher-end houses, i advocate they use custom cabinet fronts like semihandmade, which i personally love, said grote. the quality is really, really nice and you have the option to diy where you pick your benjamin moore paint. of course theres an up-charge for this of at least 20 percent, maybe 30 to 40 percent over ikea prices, she said. and youre not locked into ikea hardware  i picked up some vintage brass cabinet pulls for my cabinets early in my planning stages. check out blogger stace kings post i promise these are ikea kitchens and get ready to overload your pinterest.youd better be handy  or know someone who isits not like building an ikea billy bookcase, wilber says. there are many steps to consider when installing a kitchen. even assembling the cabinets should not be taken lightly. if just one of them isnt assembled correctly and is not square it could cause a gap that will only be exaggerated as the other cabinets get installed along the run. also, not all walls are flat or plumb. this could lead to a bad installation if you dont know how to take the steps to shim or level correctly.most of our customers hire someone to install their kitchen, she adds. that bumps up the cost of course; ikeas installation partner averages a cost of $2,600.but confident diyers have tackled the job successfully. michelle bingham, a graphic designer in san ramon, california, and her husband have done ikea kitchens in their last two homes. ikea instructions are a bit lacking in info, pieces arent labeled and sometimes the illustrations arent that helpful, she says. you really have to work within the ikea sizes and it is tricky trying to figure out what can fit and where it can fit, we even retrofitted items to finish off things nicely. when they did their second kitchen, we knew what we were in for and felt comfortable assembling everything ourselves.\"want a step by step? abby lawson of \"just a girl and her blog\" break down the entire process in this great post: \"how to design and install ikea sektion kitchen cabinets.\"how strong (or popular) are you?if you go pick everything up, do you have the people power youll need? sorise rented a u-haul and took reinforcements  two friends to help. you have to load your own [stuff] but they pull everything for you from the stacks and meet you outside, she says. theyre flat packed so theyre [the weight of] several dead bodies and you have to have a place to put them all when you get home.and some parting advicewell leave you with a last few choice bits of wisdom from wilber:the most important part is having accurate measurements of the space and thats not as easy as youd think it would be.be aware that an order can be upwards of 200 articles being delivered. we do ask that the customer do a complete inventory while the driver is there.you can charge it! the new ikea projekt credit card lets you make equal payments over 60 months for purchases over $5,000.more tricks and tips for a better homehow to design your kitchen for weight-loss successthe kitchen is the germiest room. heres how to deep clean everything.how often to clean (almost) every appliance in your homeheres how often you should replace everything in your bathroomhow to spruce up your home on a budgetwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as a journalist who writes about wellness and healthy living, i spend a lot of time exploring self-care and its various benefits. despite taking this research and reportage very seriously  and avidly recommending tips to friends and family  i often feel like a self-care failure in my personal life, judging myself against the amount of money and time i spend on rejuvenating leisure.i work out, but not as much as i feel i should, and usually i opt for high-intensity exercise rather than yoga, which though challenging, can afford me a sense of peace and calm like nothing else. i cant remember the last time i got a massage or a facial because i hate spending money on that stuff, and while i often say ill go on a long reflective hike on saturday morning, im 99 percent more likely to spend the morning reading in bed.i embarked on this story because i wanted to find methods of self-care that wouldnt cost me much money or time  two things im chronically short on. through conversations with mental health experts, i discovered an abundance of such self-care practices, which ive itemized below. but i also came away with a much more important takeaway: i am not a failure at self-care. based on these expert recommendations, im actually doing pretty good at self-care, which is less about pampering ones self with spa days and idyllic getaways (though i dont dispute the advantages of either), and more about taking moments to rejuvenate and re-center with consistency and ease.self-care is about recharging and reducing stress\"self-care is a way to recharge our mental and emotional energy,\" says dr. ryan hooper, a clinical psychologist. \"if we dont do self-care on a regular basis we will eventually feel drained and burned out. self-care doesnt have to take a ton of time; in fact, sometimes its the quick, simple things that are happening on a regular basis that keep us recharged.\"dr. farrah hauke, psy.d, a licensed psychologist, adds that self-care is \"absolutely vital\" to emotional well being. \"it is incredibly important because it can decrease stress as well as anxiety and depressive symptoms. it also helps us to be more productive and mindful of our needs which helps us to proactively address problems. she too agrees that self-care does not have to be time consuming or expensive.\"heres a look at self-care moves we can make every day without spending a dime or taking much time.designate a meditation zone (and get an app or two)if you have a whole room you can transform into a space for meditation, go for it, but for those of us maximizing our little apartments, we just need to pick a spot in our bedroom or living room where we can reflect.all you need is pillows or your favorite blanket and objects that make you feel calm,\" says cynthia v. catchings, lcsw, a talkspace therapist. \"sit there for 15 min and let the magic of the space do the healing work.\" you may want to also incorporate some deep breathing exercises.if youre anything like me and find yourself antsy and distracted just sitting there, download a meditation app to help focus you. ive tried a few, and lately im digging headspace as it provides short, guided sessions that i can tune into quickly whenever im feeling overwhelmed.bring mindfulness to routine activities like walking and washing the dishesmindfulness, which dr. sarah gray, psy.d, a clinical psychologist defines as the practice of being in the present moment, non-judgmentally and with an open curiosity to what one notices, is a wonderful way to practice self-care without changing your routine at all. mindfulness provides many opportunities to recharge our mental, emotional and physical batteries, especially if were feeling depleted by life, says dr. gray. one can engage in the traditional practice of just noticing the breath  the feel of it, the temperature, the sound  and then continue to focus on the breath even as the mind becomes distracted by thoughts, emotions or sensations.mindfulness can be applied to virtually any activity that safely allows for it including walking, eating, drinking and even washing the dishes, dr. gray says.make a gratitude listwriting down things i am grateful for in a gratitude journal helps me get centered at the end of a busy day.this practice has been show to increase a sense of happiness and is a good reminder in the moment of all that we can be grateful for, says dr. gray. you simply make a list of things that you are grateful for in this moment. it might be something as small as being grateful for the feeling of warm sun on ones face, or that you are able to take a deep breath easily. some people choose to write each one down in a journal to be re-read when they need a boost, or put each on a piece of paper in a jar and pick one out to read and reflect on at certain times.add some quick-fix ideas to a happiness jargot a few minutes? take an old jar, clean it out and designate it as your happiness jar.\"the happiness jar is a simple activity we can keep at home, says catchings. all we need is a jar or cup, a pen and some paper. cut five pieces of paper and write things that make you happy on each one of them. for example, take a bubble bath, watch an episode of your favorite show, or listen to that song that brings good memories. fold each paper and put it in the jar. when in need, pick one of the papers and enjoy the moment by doing what it says.collect rocks and repurpose them as inspirational touchstoneswhats better than a pet rock? a pet rock with an encouraging message on it hand-painted by you.step outside and look for light-colored rocks, says catchings. with pens, markers or leftover paints, create a mindfulness platter or container. on each rock paint or write words of encouragement like strength, calmness, peace, etc. once a day, go and grab one of the rocks. read the word and think about how you can accomplish that state that day.laugh  even if you arent in the moodthe happiness-making effect of the simple act of smiling has been proven, and laughter has similar value.the brain does not recognize the difference between real and fake laughter, says catchings. a [laugh] here and there can be so contagious that you can make yourself happy just by laughing about you laughing. google laughter yoga videos and start the show.take care of something taking care of something else can be a great way to take care of ourselves, says dr. hooper. having a dog or cat at home is really rewarding and you get much more in return than it requires to take care of them. just taking care of a simple potted plant or succulent can be really rewarding, too. taking the time to water them and see them grow can foster feeling of growth and rejuvenation in yourself.this tip from dr. hooper is possibly my favorite because i can relate so well to how good it feels to take care of my two dogs. my most beloved sound in the world is the sound of them lapping up water in a freshly filled bowl. they also help motivate me to take a walk no matter how tired i am, and bring a smile to my face just by being their sweet, silly selves. now, as im getting one of my pups, josepher, in training to be a therapy dog, my puppy love is off the charts.decorate your office walls with pictures of your favorite placeswhen i had a cubicle, i pinned pictures of friends and family on the walls to keep me grounded, but i never thought to put up photos of places in my work space.if you spend most of your time in an office or cubicle, print out a couple of pictures of your favorite vacation spots and place them where you can see them during the day, suggests catchings. take a couple of minutes to look at the photos during stressful moments and transport yourself to those places. imagine yourself there, feeling the breeze, hearing the sounds and let the beauty of the place reinvigorate you.any self-care methods are necessary to your strengthwhatever you choose to do, know that youre doing it not because you should, but because you need to in order to stay strong.the reality is, without taking some time to engage in self-care, youre burning the candle at both ends, says dr. chris friesen, ph.d., c.psych., bcn. the research is clear: the human brain and body cannot stay focused, productive and effective without taking breaks to recharge. stress levels can exponentially increase as the day progresses. without self-care, productivity drops.more self care tipshow defusing my thoughts helped me claw my way back from debilitating anxietythe life-changing realization that leads to health and happinesshow to worry betterhow to take a mental health daya daily ritual that will help you de-stress (in just 5 minutes)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

your kitchen light bulb flickers and goes black (after you just replaced its counterpart last week). your boss emailed another round of edits for you to make to this weeks report. you still havent scheduled that dentist appointment  nor answered that email about volunteering next week. and when you open your closet you realize its time to do laundry again.weve all (likely) been fed up enough with the routine daily grind  whether it be errands, chores, work, family responsibilities or any combination of the above  that we can relate to that i need a vacation feeling.theres this constant nonstop, says alexander cailllet, an organizational psychology consultant and coach and adjunct professor at georgetown university  explaining that the pace of work and other parts of our lives is only getting faster and faster in todays world. and our brains and bodies arent built to work that way, he says.many human beings are driven in a positive way by having some pressure, deadlines and challenges, says caillet, who is also ceo of corentus, a company that provides leadership coaching in the workplace. but were expected to respond to emails, texts and a myriad of other communication channels continuously. we run from back-to-back meetings and appointments. caillet says it can feel like a relentless march forward with no time off.it wears us down, he says. and thats why today more than ever we need to value time off  and take it. and take enough of it, he says. but vacation doesnt mean you need to fly to europe or some tropical beach necessarily. the time off caillet is talking about means unplugging from the everyday drudge and engaging in something different that leaves you feeling refreshed and rejuvenated. it might look like a two-week road trip, or it could be an afternoon hike, enjoying a good meal with interesting friends, or simply gardening for an hour in your backyard.its about giving ourselves a chance to step out of the stress, calm down, rebuild and regain that sense of balance, caillet says. its about the mindset.the vacation state of mind frees your brain for important mental processingthink back to the last time you completely lost track of time  when you were able to choose to do what you wanted to do in the moment. you werent worried. you werent thinking about what you had to do the next day. and you felt satisfied with whatever you were doing  and you werent questioning, judging, comparing or worrying that maybe you should be somewhere else or be doing something else.thats the vacation state of mind, explains brigid schulte, director of the better life lab at new america and author of the book \"overwhelmed: work, love, and play when no one has time.\" you feel okay with yourself and what youre doing. and youre giving yourself permission to be in the moment and let the moment unfold as it is, she says.the brain is designed to work in two modes, she says. we have the concentrated-vigilant on mode and then this spacey, day-dreaming mode. and you really need both. (its not that being in work mode is inherently a bad state of mind to be in, caillet adds. its just that you cant stay in that state of mind all the time. and thats an important point, he says.) the on mode is where we get things done. the unplugged mode is where your brain is freed up to have new ideas, fresh thoughts and make connections it wouldnt otherwise, she says. neuroscience explains the down time mode (default mode in science speak) is when we have insights, and that it plays an important role in our psychological mental processing, reading comprehension, divergent thinking skills, and our ability to feel social emotions.unplugging also gives you time to connect to your sense of self and to others  and take stock of the meaning youre getting out of life, schulte says. and getting in vacation mode is one way to get into that down time, daydreaming state of mind.getting away really only takes an instantthis is where we could cite dozens of studies that illustrate the benefits of vacation and down time (such as research that shows having reliable and predictable regular time off improves job satisfaction, perception of work/life balance, intention to stay in a job and performance). but if youre reading an article about how to get into the vacation mindset, you probably dont need another reason why you want to.what is helpful to know is that evidence suggests you can actually get into that mindset really quickly. one study that looked at brain activity in individuals as they watched videos for entertainment showed that that down time brain mode could be activated in a moment with the blink of an eye.it happens when you take a break from your day-to-day life, you focus on something else (whether its people, an experience or an adventure), and you engage in something different, caillet adds. youre immersed in it and youre curious about it, he says.another factor that you need to get you there, schulte says, is having a sense of choice in where you are and what youre doing (its not an obligation  you want to be there). and you need to feel a sense of control over time, meaning theres not something else youre watching the clock to rush off to.one psychological model of what makes leisure time leisurely suggests that five components help: detachment from work, autonomy, meaning, mastery (youre overcoming a challenge or honing a skill), and affiliation (having a feeling of belonging or association).how to get into that state of mind, statso how do you get to that state of mind? remember: vacation does not any one specific location make. you could be on the most exotic and luxurious beach in the world and be stressing out about a work email your phone just alerted you to, feeling like you cant afford the trip youre on, or the fact that more of your friends havent liked your vacay instagram post yet.dont be that wound-up vacationer. heres how to do your time off better.make the right kind of planwhether youre taking a month-long sabbatical or you just hired a babysitter to watch the kids and give you an afternoon off, start by deciding how you want to feel during that time off first, schulte says. then plan what you need to do (or might try) to get you there.do you need alone time? do you want to be in nature? do you want to be active? maybe you really just want a quiet afternoon to myself to read a book. or maybe you want to plan a big dinner party with friends you havent seen in a while.thats the type of planning that should come before you start looking at hotel reviews and airfare, schulte notes. a lot of times for vacations, the most important planning is the planning we dont do.set a perimetergive yourself some parameters as to what time off means. maybe its a week. maybe its three hours. but determine that time frame and determine what you want to be inside and outside of that perimeter you set, caillet says.maybe youre spending the entire day with your family. dont answer work emails. dont worry about getting back to your friends text about plans next week. it can wait. (though do make exceptions for true emergencies, caillet adds.)now respect that perimeternow that youve determined what you want your time off to look like and feel like, give yourself permission to go there and be with whats in front of you, caillet says. dont answer that text or that email or fit in that one extra task on your to-do list.does unplugging mean you need to disconnect from social media, too? not necessarily, caillet says  but be judicious about it. is it going to help you connect to, engage with and enjoy the experience? or is it going to bump you out of the experience?add music, dancing and good foodthink of that song you cant help but dance to. this is the time to blast it. music dramatically affects our mood and energy, caillet says. it can very quickly make us feel very happy or very relaxed or very excited.similarly a really good meal may trigger a memory of something really pleasant in your life (your grandmas cooking) or it might be exciting to try something new and different. food ignites taste and taste ignites smell, caillet says. and that can reawaken you, he says. (being in nature can help reawaken the senses, too, he adds.) the vacation state of mind is a lot about reigniting the senses.be presentstop. look around. notice things. listen. taste. touch. be curious, caillet says.one really straightforward way to be present, caillet notes, is to make it a point to learn something new. if youre with someone else, ask them a question. if youre on a hike, notice whats around you. what kind of trees do you see? whats the trail like? get into it, caillet says.more mental health helphow defusing my thoughts helped me claw my way back from debilitating anxiety7 steps for getting through a panic attackhow to worry betterhow to take a mental health daya daily ritual that will help you de-stress (in just 5 minutes)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the instant pot is a perennial fan favorite and amazon prime day sellout. 300,000 units were reportedly sold this year, selling out in 19 hours, which included a four-hour technical glitch. its no wonder. the compact appliance is a jack-of-all trades! with the push of a button, it sauts, steams, slow cooks, pressure cooks, bakes cakes, boils eggs and makes yogurt, among other functions.but what families and busy people love about the instant pot is that it can get meals on the table stat! if you need instant pot inspiration, here are nine summery, healthy dishes that save time and dont skimp on flavor.instant pot mac and cheesecauliflower is the secret ingredient that keeps this mac and cheese on the lighter side. after its pureed, cauliflower is stirred into the cheese to give it the familiar creaminess without the heaviness. thanks to this genius hack, this version has just two cups of cheese versus the six cups that ive seen in a classic recipe. plus, cauliflower brings fiber and disease-fighting compounds while boosting your veggie intake  all big wins in my book.this instant pot mac and cheese uses gluten free pasta, but i bet you could find instant pot cooking instructions for whole wheat pasta or a bean-based variety if youd like. to punch up the protein in this dish, you could stir in thawed, frozen peas or shelled edamame. either way, id suggest serving it with a mixed salad because, well, more veggies!greek millet saladmillet is a gluten-free whole grain that doesnt get enough attention! its especially rich in magnesium, a mineral thats involved in proper heart, nerve and muscle functioning, and that helps regulate blood glucose and blood pressure. population surveys show that most americans get insufficient magnesium levels because we dont eat enough whole foods, like millet and other whole grains, as well as nuts and beans, that are good sources.though you can cook millet just fine on a stovetop, using the instant pot cuts the cooking time in halfdown to ten minutes. once cooked, its tossed with a simple dressing, tomatoes and olives. since this recipe is vegan, katz adds seasoned, pressed tofu as a stand in for feta. if you arent vegan, or you have a soy allergy or insensitivity, you could always skip this. for those who eat dairy, ordinary feta would be delicious in this dish, and if youre skipping the tofu and want to boost the protein, rinsed and drained canned chickpeas would be a convenient option to compliment the flavors.instant pot maple mustard chicken recipeafter some staple ingredients spend time in the instant pot, youll get deliciously glazed chicken thats weeknight-friendly, but guest-worthy. registered dietitian and blogger anne mauney pairs hers with green beans and rice, but just about any veggie at your local farmers market will work.if youre tired of chicken breasts, youll appreciate that the recipe calls for a mix of breasts and thighs (though i bet you could choose either/or). thigh meat is considered richer and more flavorful than the breast, which many people prefer. and while it has slightly more saturated fat than the breast, once you remove the skin (as this recipe does) its still a lean choice.instant pot mexican quinoa bowlthis might become your new go-to for those times you want a meatless, protein-packed, one-pot meal made from pantry ingredients that preps in just 10 minutes. black beans and quinoa provide the plant protein, and they also happen to pack in lots of fiber. though this is technically a complete meal, i might balance it out even more by serving it over a bed of chopped romaine.instant pot peach jam youre definitely going to want to load up on peaches to make this fresh jam that has just four ingredients and takes a mere five minutes to prep. if you know how to cut a peach, you can make this jam! you dont even need to peel the peaches.deliciousness aside, peaches are a source of carotenoids (like many other yellow, orange, red and pink fruits and veggies). these compounds have been shown to protect your skin from the suns damaging uv rays, as well as impart a healthy glow without promoting signs of aging.i think this peach jam would elevate any cheese plate, and it would also be the perfect partner for a crusty slice of whole grain or sourdough bread.homemade instant pot vanilla yogurtthis recipe stood out to me because its a no-sugar-added vanilla yogurt, which is something i havent seen in stores. thats worth plugging in your instant pot for! most flavored yogurts contain added sweeteners, even if its just a hint (as some manufacturers say).added sugars may promote weight gain, raise the risk of diabetes and heart disease, and potentially worsen acne. up to 75 percent of packaged foods, including yogurt, cereal and bread, contain added sugars, which is why this no-fuss diy vanilla yogurt makes a ton of sense.if you cant stomach unsweetened yogurt, try adding a spoonful or two of the instant pot peach jam. though it contains honey, much of the sweetness comes from the fruit.whole wheat no knead breadshe had me at no knead. i always appreciate recipe shortcuts so this no knead bread stood out to me. proofing the dough in the instant pot is another time-saving hack.while you can find a good packaged bread, nothing tastes as delicious as freshly baked. use it as a base for nut butters, avocado mash, your homemade peach jam or simply to serve up your favorite sandwich fillings.instant pot spaghetti squash with tomatoes, basil, and garlicspaghetti squash is in constant rotation at my house and this instant pot recipe speeds up the cook time, which most of us can appreciate. once done, its tossed with basil and tomatoes for a light, summery and flavorful meal.spaghetti squash is a great alternative to pasta when youre looking to eat lean; it has just 42 calories and 10 grams of carbohydrate per cup. the same amount of spaghetti has about 200 calories and 38 grams of carbs. and lets face it: who eats just one cup?since this recipe has your veggies covered, you may want to add a protein topper. grilled shrimp would pair well with these flavors, either tossed together with the spaghetti squash or on the side.instant pot artichokes with white wine, capers and burrataartichokes are light in calories and carbs but high fiber, packing 7 grams of this hunger-fighting nutrient in each globe. notably, artichokes are high in fructans, a prebiotic fiber that provides fuel for beneficial gut bacteria. research suggests that a high fiber diet rich in a variety of prebiotic fiber can lower markers of inflammation, boost your immune system and lower the risk of allergies and inflammatory conditions.most of the artichokes we eat come from california, so while spring is peak season, you can enjoy them year-round. get your hands on one for this delightful dish, which pairs the veggie globes with a wine-lemon sauce, salty capers and creamy burrata cheese. enjoy it as a side dish or atop your favorite pasta.more better-for-you recipes13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonight6 dinner recipes to eat after a particularly stressful dayhealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for you12 better-for-you summer barbecue recipeswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

today, women are leading more companies than at any other time in history (though theres still room for more!). but before they rose to the office of ceo, all of them, at some point, had to land their first job  and ask for a promotion or raise.heres how five female ceos did it and some of their best advice for everyone else on a journey to leadership.i learned how to network.megan driscoll, ceo and founder of evolvemkd public relations firmthe greatest thing ive done at the start of (and during) my career is networking. people ive met over the years have recommended me for jobs, become clients and even mentors. ive been given many opportunities that i wouldnt have experienced otherwise.her advice: if youre just starting out, i would recommend reaching out to your alumni networks or internship bosses. when someone is willing to give you their time, come prepared with questions that you cannot find answers to on the internet. showing up informed, prepared and engaged will go a long way. dont forget that informational interviews can lead to jobs!i realized i was underpaid and asked for more money.christa quarles, ceo of opentable, the worlds largest provider of online restaurant reservationsi had been told by many people over the years that it wasnt appropriate to ask for more money, which is crazy, but you internalize these things. in one of my first jobs, i rose quickly through the ranks, but i knew that my salary had not kept up with my title. i didnt know exactly how far off my compensation was, but i knew it was off. i went in to my boss and i said, i am not getting paid relative to my rank, and this is unacceptable. he looked at my salary and i ended up getting more money. i realized then that negotiating for yourself is just another way of doing business, and ive been a negotiator ever since. ive actually been told that i over-negotiate, but i dont think i would be told that if i were a man.her advice: understand the objective measures of your value and be able to negotiate directly around what you bring to the table. how many customers did you deliver? how much did you increase profits? open your discussion with those remarks.i decided to never compromise who i am.janice bryant howroyd, founder ceo of the actone group, the largest woman-owned human resources solutions firm in the countryevery conversation leaves a footprint. so, never compromise who you are personally to become who you wish to be professionally. it was the teaching of my mom and dad  who were very invested in my life  that framed that type of thinking. then, once i became invested in my business, i learned that its really true. weve all heard the advice, to thine own self be true, and its essential if you want to be able to lay your head down well and get a good nights sleep. it matters who you are, in all aspects of your life.her advice: if you arent being true to yourself, eventually, one (or more) of your facades are going to crack. my father always said that what you do in the dark will always come to light  and he said that before we even knew what a cell phone was.i learned how to lead the discussion about my promotion by making it less about me.autumn manning, co-founder and ceo of youearnedit, an austin, tx- based human resources technology companywhen i went in to ask for my first raise, i knew that my getting it had nothing to do with how much i deserved it. i needed to show how id delivered value to the company. i learned to talk about the things that i uniquely provided that no one else did, which made conversations around promotions factual, not emotional. i want to have a conversation about my title, sounds very different from ive been here for a year and i deserve a promotion. no one likes emotionally-loaded discussions, which is why talking about what youve done  not what you want is such a great approach.her advice: these conversations can be uncomfortable, no matter how prepared you are. its a good idea to put all of your metrics on paper and pretend like youre having a business conversation (which, by the way, you are.)i asked for additional opportunities.beth gerstein, co-founder and co-ceo of brilliant earth, an ethically sourced bridal and fine jewelry companyi was always super focused on how i could be most effective. once i had proven myself in one area of my work, i would ask for additional projects. when you do a bit more, and go above and beyond expectations, thats going to amplify your success. admittedly, it may be easier to take on different types of work at a smaller company, but anytime you can show youre interested in the bigger picture and able to do more, its a good thing.her advice: try to have a curiosity broader than your current role and figure out ways that you can add value outside of your day-to-day responsibilities. keep in mind, though, that the number one thing you have to do is demonstrate mastery in the job youre being paid to do now. only once youve done that should you demonstrate how youd like to take on more.with kathryn tuggletake your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to build a work wardrobe on a budgethow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

jim and jeanne (jeannie) gaffigan have been writing comedy together for years. but the comedic duo had a very unique source of inspiration when writing jims latest standup special, \"noble ape\": a tumor the size of a pear blocking jeannies brain-stem.their world was rocked to the core when jeannie was unexpectedly diagnosed with the tumor  and ultimately had it surgically removed in april of last year. so they coped the only way they knew how: finding the humor in the situation. now that they are out the other side of the difficult ordeal (after a lengthy recovery, jeannie is now in good health), theyve partnered with tylenol on a new campaign called #howwecare that supports caregivers who dedicate themselves to their loved ones well-being every day.i think that its important for people to acknowledge the caregivers in the world because they are the ones that we need when it comes down to basic human survival, jim told nbc news better. and its hard to say thank you. so this is a way to take care of the caregivers in our life.we caught up with the couple and talked jims own experience being a caregiver (to the wife who is usually taking care of him), why an mri machine is funny and how comedy (even about serious illness) is really about a shared humanity.on being diagnosed with a brain tumorjeannie: the day i found out about my diagnosis was a routine mri that i had put off for several months after i noticed, in early 2017, that my hearing in my left ear had just completely stopped. i noticed it and kinda blew it off because im so busy. we have five kids and a busy career. actually, my pediatrician noticed that i couldnt hear out of my ear, and sent me to an ear, nose and throat (ent) doctor. several ent visits later, they couldnt find anything wrong, so they sent me for a routine mri. when i came out of that, they [said], \"you need to meet with a neurosurgeon because you have a gigantic mass in your brain.\"jim: we were in our office and [jeannie] got a phone call. and then [she] went into the other room. instinctively, you know somethings wrong.jeannie: i didnt really know what that meant, that they found something in my brain. it was a large mass. thats all they said. the doctor was like, \"im not a neurosurgeon, so heres some phone numbers. tell them i referred you from this mri. go to the radiology center. get your scan. and bring it to the appointment.\" and then i was kind of just out there in limbo. not knowing what to do. and so jim and i had to sort of figure it out, navigate this.jim: make a plan. thats what you have to do. you have to make the best next decision you can make. and so thats what we did.on realizing the power of a caregiverjim: essentially, shes wonder woman. she did everything. and as a result of her selfishly having a brain tumor, i had to adopt a caregiving role. everyone has someone in their life who is a caregiver. and i think that especially right now, with everything thats going on in the news and how divided people feel, if you look at each of these tragic situations that make you feel bad about humanity, just look at the helpers in the situation. look at the people who are taking care of victims. and understand that these people are what is good about humans. and what we should do is thank these people. having personally had the role of a caregiver, i think its important to realize that.on why removing a brain tumor is funnyjim: prior to the brain surgery to remove the tumor, jeannie had to go through this two-hour mri where they essentially built a map of her brain so that they could kind of practice, almost like a video game. when she came out i greeted her. her first thought was, \"write down these ideas on mris, on just the humor surrounding it.\" it didnt end up in the special. but i remember thinking, \"most people would be like, oh, it was horrible. i had to be quiet in there.\" and she [said], \"being the mother of five children, that was the most peace ive had in a long time.\"jeannie: there were just so many things ... like, observational humor. it just becomes a second nature to instinctually process information through that lens. and so you could either sit in a mri for two hours, freaking out about, \"whats wrong with me? whats gonna happen? why are these noises so loud? why cant i breathe or move?\" or you could just be like \"why is this so hilarious right now?\" and it helps get through the trauma.jim: i spent a couple weeks going to the icu. you would tell people, \"the icu,\" and they would get all nervous. and i remember thinking, if youre gonna be in the hospital, youd rather be in the intensive care unit rather than, like, the alternative, which i would assume would be the mediocre care unit? so there was some humor out of that, too. but youre thrust into this world  the hospital world  so as a comedian, as a writing team, we just kind of took some of this in. some of it ends up in \"noble ape.\" some of it doesnt. one of my favorite stories is jeannie couldnt eat. and by the way, shes married to, like, the biggest glutton in the world...jeannie: im really not even that big of an eater. but when you cant eat for days, weeks, months and youre just getting nutrition through a tube, its brutal. i was in the hospital. i was coming back to, out of anesthesia. i opened my eyes and i saw his name tag said \"dr. hamburger.\" and i literally thought that i was hallucinating. i was like, \"your name isnt dr. hamburger, is it?\" and hes like, \"unfortunately, yes.\" i was like, \"what are the odds that your name is dr. hamburger and i want to eat a hamburger right now more than anything in the whole world?\"jim: wheres nurse mustard?on humor as a coping mechanismjim: the fact that jeannie and i have written comedy together for a while, some of it was a natural go-to for us to process going through jeannies brain tumor; just to go to comedy. we didnt have an expectation that it would resonate so much. when i started touring with some of the brain tumor material, i was surprised; obviously not everyones had a loved one thats had a brain tumor. but it was the shared experience of going through this medical crisis; taking on a role as a caretaker. the stress, we all deal with it. we all have loved ones that deal with medical crises. and the shared experience of going through the hospital experience provided great comedy. but i think it was also kind of cathartic for the audience, for someone to make light of it.jeannie: what we experienced was, we cant just look at this glass half empty. its something that we have to deal with. we cant just run and hide. its a fight-or-flight reaction, and were gonna choose to fight. and we choose to fight with humor. because its a coping mechanism. and i really feel that people have responded so positively because when youre in a situation like this, you need to be able to feel the joy of being able to look at someone you love and just laugh with them about the situation that youre in.jim: i think also the humor of a situation is derived from a shared acknowledgement. i mean being a human being is pretty insane. and going through a medical emergency, some of the humor is just the shared acknowledgement of the awkward situation, or the observation of it. and so going through such a heavy time period, you have to laugh. and i guess on the surface, you could see something as inappropriate. but its the shared humanity that i think people get a kick out of.more celebrity advice for living a better lifechristie brinkley spills her secrets on aging gracefullynba legend ray allen: my role as a fatherwhitney port on the unique struggle of millennial momsgenevieve gorders tips on designing a healthy, passionate lifewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

you know the feeling, and its a bad one. suddenly everything in the house goes silent and dark. powers out. you run outside to see if its just you, and check your breaker box. meanwhile youre wondering: how long is it going to be out? a few minutes is one thing. a few hours, even. but if youre without electric for days on end  or longer  the throwback appeal of reading by candlelight quickly loses its charm.i live in a city prone to weather anomalies  we joke that after hail storms, wind storms, ice storms, and floods in louisville, kentucky, all were missing is a plague of locusts. my previous neighborhood was cursed with power lines that would go down in the merest breeze, and outages were measured in days, not hours.we tend to take the power grid for granted, until it fails us. and tis the season. while we love to get outside and enjoy warm weather its fairly common to experience pop-up thunderstorms and inclement weather, in the summer, said liz pratt, a spokesperson for lg&amp;e and ku, the utility provider in my city. utilities, speaking broadly, are continually investing in our electric systems and equipment to make them more resilient. however, during storms, strong winds and storm debris are major culprits that can cause power outages.so sooner or later, chances are you may be facing an eerily quiet, dark house. what now? (besides frantically checking to see how much juice is on your cell phone battery!)pratt shares some tips, beginning with stay safe. you can never remind someone enough times to make sure that their safety is the most important priority, she says. so stay away from downed power lines and keep the camp stoves and charcoal grills outdoors.first things first: report the outagethe first action you should take, pratt says, is notify your utility. dont assume your neighbors have done it  besides, the more people that report an outage, the better they can pinpoint the problem. and after critical care community services (like hospitals and airports) have power restored, she explained, utilities look to areas that can bring lots of customers back at one time. so you cant over-report.however, dont wait till the lights go off. its best to do research ahead of time to know what tools and resources your utility offers, pratt says. here in louisville with lg&amp;e i can text to report an outage and receive an estimate for when it should be restored as well as updates on progress. during a recent outage their estimate was spot-on. that intel was super helpful, because i knew i could wait it out and not have to decamp to a coffee shop to work.be prepared with a disaster kitbut what if its going to be an extended outage? to find out i checked in with the first kind of person who comes to mind when you think about preparing for a calamity. yep, i called a prepper. tom martin is the founder of american preppers network, and he offered some advice for preparing for and responding to power outages.first up? no matter the emergency, be ready with a disaster supplies kit like that detailed on ready.gov, martin says. that should include water (one gallon per person per day for at least three days  and dont forget about your pets), at least a three-day supply of non-perishable food, and things like manual can openers, flashlights and extra batteries (including for your cell phone).before deciding to stick it out, listen to authorities, martin urges. if the outage is the result of a natural disaster or other calamity, it may be that you need to evacuate.have a plan for where youll go in an emergency, martin adds. ive had to pack up and stay with friends or family because we didnt have heat in the winter, or ac in the dead of kentucky summer during extended power outages. so that youre not scrambling, its good to know ahead of time where your bug out place will be, he says.know when to toss the food in the fridgebut if you stay, take note of the time. when the outage strikes, the clock is ticking on the food in your refrigerator and freezer. the usda says food in a fridge will stay safely cold for four hours if the door isnt opened and a full freezer will maintain temperature for about 48 hours (if its half full, thats 24 hours) as long as you keep the door closed. and dont rely on just looking  and certainly not on tasting  to see if the foods safe, they say. instead, keep appliance thermometers in the fridge and freezer. you want to see 40 f or below in the fridge and 0f or lower in the freezer. when in doubt, take individual foods temperature with a food thermometer.you might be able to stretch the time food will stay cold, martin says, by wrapping [the refrigerator or freezer] in sleeping bags. wrap it up as best you can and dont open it unless its absolutely necessary, and when you do, take out as much as you can use that day. and when times running out, why not make it a cooking extravaganza? fire up the grill (outside, remember!) or go ahead and eat that ice cream you were saving.load up on light sourcesof course youll also need light when the powers out. martin recommends keeping a stock of cheap candles on hand so you dont burn through your pricier good-smelling candles. more practical, though, are led flashlights (be sure you have extra batteries and know where they are) and another product called a mule light. like a hybrid of a glow stick and flashlight, he explained, its designed to save on battery power. why not have them all? martin suggests having two to four sources of light.how to stay cool when the ac is outstaying cool is a real concern in many parts of the country. i like to say we left for our long-haired dogs comfort during one lengthy summer power outage, but i was as miserable as they were. we now keep a stash of battery operated fans on hand, clearly labeled in a box in the basement so i can find them easily with a flashlight. its nothing like having ac, but prop one in a window and it makes a big difference. speaking of dogs, you can follow their lead. heat rises, so stay in a low position, martin saiys. think about how a dog will dig down into the earth to get cool. i might not go that far for a temporary power outage, but in that same vein, anyone with a basement could head there. they stay pretty cool year round, martin adds.dont go stir crazy: occupy your mindonce youve accounted for safety and health, theres also mental well-being. you want things to help keep your mind occupied, martin says. when you dont know what to do you get bored and anxious. think cards, board games, books, things to make you comfortable and happy. it was kind of amazing how much reading i got done in our last bout with no tv.and none of us want to be without our cell phones any longer than we have to (plus they may be our only connection to the outside world so theres that) so keep an eye on the weather. if a storm is brewing, be sure youre staying charged up. better still, have a non-electric back-up charger. besides solar options, martin says, there are even wind and water powered chargers now.more tips for a better summerhow to save money on your summer utility billhow to adjust your sleep routine during the summer monthswhat you need to know about summer weight gain (and how to avoid ithow to stop someone from drowning with a pool skimmerhow to protect yourself from zikawant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

names: lexi and danny reedages: lexi, 27; danny, 30residence: terre haute, injobs: lexi formerly worked in a law firm and danny worked for an optical service company. their weight-loss success has lead to new careers as professional bloggers at fatgirlfedup and discoveringdanny. they also sell clothing online.marital status: married in october, 2015lexis peak weight: 485 poundslexis current weight: 173 poundsdannys peak weight: 280 poundsdannys current weight: 185 poundsa lot of times youll hear weight-loss advice that recommends small, incremental changes, like add one more serving of veggies a day, swap water for sugary drinks or park in the back of the lot. lexi and danny reed upended that advice. together, they agreed on a five-part, total-reset new years resolution in 2016:no eating outno cheat mealsno sodano alcoholfive 30-minute workouts per weekit wasnt just a diet, it was a total lifestyle change, lexi says. they agreed to stick with their resolution for a month. they ended up sticking with it for good and have lost more than 400 pounds combined.i had a click moment, danny says. i was hiking with some friends and i was behind. they kept looking back and saying, are you ok back there? are you keeping up? i was trying to. that moment really stuck in my head. it was a big reason i wanted to change.a long battle with unwanted weightlexi says, for her, weight control has been a lifelong struggle. ive been overweight my whole life. i tried to do weight watchers and la weight loss but if i lost weight i just gained it back, she says.she would often skip breakfast, then have a huge lunch. on the days she did eat breakfast, she would grab a sausage, egg and cheese biscuit, hash browns and a large coke at mcdonalds.danny says that when he was younger and active, playing sports and skateboarding, he was able to maintain a healthy weight. once i stopped doing those things i started putting on weight, he says. and after he and lexi got comfortable in their relationship he put on more pounds.before new years day 2016 the couple spent most evenings on the couch, binge-watching netflix, ordering pizza, drinking soda and eating junk food. we were just sitting, watching tv, not taking care of ourselves. we were this 765-pound couple, lexi says.for lexis job at a law firm, she helped people get social security disability benefits. i would listen to people talking about their diabetes, their heart problems, their neuropathy, and i realized if i didnt take care of myself id be the person calling in, she says.while she wasnt diagnosed with any health problems related to her weight, she concedes that she didnt go to the doctor very often. i had a lot of joint pain and i struggled to breathe, she acknowledges.signs of success keep them moving forwardstarting out wasnt easy. when your body is used to doing the same thing over and over you become a creature of habit. i think its better to shock your body and do everything completely differently than to make slow changes, danny says.lexi concedes that their changes were hard at first. the hardest of all of it was changing our relationship to food. we had to learn to eat to live, not live to eat, day by day, she says. having each other as a buddy system kept us accountable. on days we didnt want to change we had each other. we started to see progress, and that made us want to push more.danny agrees: we both realized we needed to lose weight and to get healthy for our future. we fell in love with taking care of ourselves and working out, and the positive effects that came with that. were seeing results, he says.the couple looked for ways to make fun, healthy versions of the foods they liked. we try to eat more protein and lots of vegetable and less carbs, though we do eat carbs, she says. they focus their meals on protein sources like lean meats, chicken, turkey and salmon as well as vegetables like brussels sprouts, sweet potatoes and broccoli. they choose whole-wheat bread and will make pizza on a tortilla rather than having a stuffed crust. instead of taco bell, they make a healthy taco salad at home, without the shell.it wasnt easy to stop drinking soda but now i prefer water over soda. i didnt drink any soda for three months and when i did, it tasted really sugary, syrupy and a lot different, danny says.lexi and dannys typical mealsbreakfast: eggs with turkey sausage or bacon or sometimes regular baconlunch: chicken and broccolidinner: blackened salmon, sweet potato, cottage cheesesnacks: banana with peanut butter, fruit or nutspartnering for workoutstheyve built a routine of going to the gym together six times a week. danny does a cardio workout for 20 to 30 minutes, followed by weight training.lexi started with the elliptical. at 485 [pounds] i was probably over the weight limit for the machine, she says. she stuck with it for 30 minutes, five times a week. i was so determined to change. it was hard. i wasnt fast, but i got 30 minutes done and every time i went back i challenged myself to beat my time. i got faster and stronger.along with an occasional elliptical workout, she goes to a zumba class two or three times a week and uses the stair climber and the weights at the gym. i do so many different workouts now. i dont do the same thing every day. if i find myself plateauing, i switch it up, she says.she concedes that she was self-conscious about going to the gym at first. but i knew i had to change for me. if people were going to stare i was going to be the hardest-working person in the room. and having danny there made me more confident  i wasnt walking in that first day alone.weighing 173 pounds now, her goal is 160 pounds. id like to lose more but to me this is small; ive never been this small in my life, she says.danny would like to see his weight drop to 180 so he can claim a 100-pound weight loss. he thinks an ultimate goal weight for him might be in the 170- to 175-pound range.a new lifestyle leads to new careerslexi wanted a way to build accountability, so she started an instagram account at the advice of a colleague. i thought maybe id have 10 instagram followers. i started it because i didnt want to annoy all of my facebook friends with my posts, she says.her instagram account became a hit with people inspired by her weight-loss success, and shes approaching one million followers. she and danny found themselves in the spotlight. their story was featured by the daily mail and rachel ray, and in peoples half their size issue. and loreal honored her as a strong woman with a video at the sag awards this year. danny launched a blog of his own and they both now blog full time.its crazy. i didnt expect to be noticed, she says. but its been really cool for danny and i to be able to share our story. if we can help inspire somebody thats what we want to do. were just small-town indiana people going with the flow.how their lives have changedlexi quickly lists a bunch of things she can do now. easily fly in an airplane. ride in a roller coaster. drive a car without her stomach touching the steering wheel. put on shoes and socks without struggling. go kayaking and canoeing.i can do all these activities with my husband. before we just sat on the couch. i could hardly walk a block or climb a flight of stairs without being out of breath. now were experiencing all these new things. this is a whole new life, she says.danny doesnt have any trouble keeping up with his hiking buddies these days, and he can ride his mountain bike for long stretches. everything is better and easier, he says.part of the inspiration for their weight loss was the desire to be parents in the future, and they plan to add to their family in a year or so. for now, theyre working on their summer bucket list of things they couldnt do easily before. they plan to travel within and outside the united states and to visit theme parks. we got kicked off a roller coaster on one of our first dates, lexi says. they might even try bungee jumping and skydiving. its not about the weight you lose, its about the life you gain, lexi says.more weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as someone who hasnt always had the healthiest relationship with money, i thought for a long time that a credit score was just not something i would ever concern myself with. good credit was for people who owned their homes and had fancy credit cards made of metal. what possible impact could it ever have on a creative 20-something living in a big city?that, of course, ended up being a big gap in my thinking. i may be a car-less, house-less, amex black-less 26-year-old, but my credit score has influenced my life more times than i can count.nowadays, im a bona fide credit geek. i always look forward to the monthly mint email notification telling me i have a new credit score available  seeing it go from the okay to the good range is one of the best mood-boosters ive ever experienced.but i didnt get to be as enthusiastic about building credit as i am now overnight; i had to experience first-hand just how relevant credit was in my own life. for example, a few years ago, when i needed to apply for a balance transfer credit card to help take care of some consumer debt id built up, i was relieved to have a good enough credit score to qualify for one. otherwise, i would have had to pay much more in interest in the long run.there are plenty of other ways that credit influences your life that you may not have even considered. to explore further, i reached out to some of the top credit and lending experts out there  here are their top five lesser-known ways credit can impact your life.your shot at nabbing a great apartmentwhen it comes to housing, good credit isnt just a concern for homeowners  its a huge concern for renters, too.while a low score may not lead to the denial of an application, it will likely lead to a higher total cost than paid by someone with a higher credit score, says ian atkins, chief financial analyst of fitsmallbusiness.com. a landlord may require a deposit that might otherwise be waived.i personally experienced how credit affects your lease application back when i made the move to new york city. because i didnt yet have a proven income or a solid credit history to back me up, i had to have a parent co-sign the lease as a guarantor  an option thats certainly not available to everyone. if you work on building your credit, youll have more control over your housing situation, regardless of whether you own or rent.the health of your small businessif youre a small business owner, credit might drastically affect your ability to stay afloat. healthy credit is one of the top factors that influences whether or not you can qualify for a business loan.while not every business owner depends on external funding sources, not having access to them can seriously impact the cash flow of your business. and good credit isnt only important to traditional business lenders like banks.credit (or no credit) can really make a difference with a business owners cash flow, says laura h. stover rfc, ceo investment advisor at ls wealth management, llc in bryan, oh. when you apply for business financing, alternative lenders typically look at anywhere from three to six months of bank statements, a good history of paying on time, and debt-to-income ratio calculations, which determine the amount of a loan or line of credit the individual would receive.its impossible to grow a business without access to capital, and a good credit score makes that much easier to come across.financing a smartphonemost of us may not be small business owners, but id bet the vast majority of us owns a smartphone. heck, youre probably reading this on one right now  and chances are, thanks to the ever-increasing costs of pocket technology, you didnt buy it outright.financing a smartphone means  you guessed it  having your credit checked. even if you can pay up front or go with an older phone, most cell phone companies require a credit check before they extend service, says professor alexander lowry, director of the master of science program in financial analysis at gordon college. if you have poor or no credit, you might be required to pay a down payment before getting your phone.simply put, good credit means this little piece of your budget could be much less expensive.the amount you pay on utilitieseveryone needs access to utilities like electricity and water, but having good credit might (once again) make a difference in how much you pay the providers up front.according to professor lowry, utilities such as cable, electricity, phone and water are essentially short-term loans because you use the services before you pay for them. utility companies want to make sure they will be paid, and almost always run a credit check when you apply for new service. while basic services such as electricity and water usually have to take any customers, all utility companies are generally able to collect a deposit. customers with good credit may not have to make a deposit, while those with poor credit often need a deposit worth several months of services.once again, good credit means saving yourself some money.the amount of mortgage you can secureyou probably understand how your credit score will impact the interest rate you get on a mortgage if you ever choose to buy a home. but thats not the only part of a mortgage that it impacts.\"our report shows that the benefits of improving your credit score go beyond lower interest rates and include access to higher loans amounts and higher ltvs,\" said tendayi kapfidze, lendingtrees chief economist and author of the organizations may report on mortgage offers. \"this allows a home buyer to be more competitive in a marketplace with limited inventory and heightened competition among buyers.\"a good credit score means increasing your access. youll have more opportunities available to you, whether that be a wider price range of homes to choose from or the ability to be more selective when choosing a rewards credit card.and the good news is that, while building good credit doesnt happen overnight, anyone can do it  and the sooner you start working at it, the better.get more simple money hacks thatll help you savethe 2-minute rule i use to effortlessly manage my money5 apps that can make your financial life easier todaymoney hacks thatll help you save (and keep you safe)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

dozens of travel websites promise deals and discounts for hotel rooms, but can a few clicks on these sites really save you money? checkbook.org, an independent non-profit consumer group, decided to find out.checkbooks researchers analyzed more than 3,500 hotel rates on 18 different online travel agencies, plus hotel websites. they requested rates for stays of one night, three nights and seven nights in 46 u.s. cities and 12 foreign ones.most booking options offered the same price for the same room, checkbooks executive editor kevin brasler told nbc news better. \"we were rarely offered a different price across any of these different booking sites or even from the hotel. we just found the same price offered over and over and over again.the key results from the checkbook survey:except for a handful of specialty websites, there was very little price variation among most of the options. checkbooks researchers were offered the prevailing rate 85 percent of the time.when rates did vary, the savings was typically less than $10 a night.checking kayak or trivago, aggregator sites that show listings from numerous travel websites, sometimes resulted in good deals.i noticed this price parity when looking for a room at the sheraton syracuse university hotel and conference center in september. my search on kayak resulted in the same price, $270 a night, on kayak and nine other sites: cheaptickets, expedia, hotels.com, hotwire, tripadvisor, orbitz, priceline, travelocity, and sheraton.in its report, the disappearing hotel bargain, checkbook criticizes travel websites for misleading consumers with steep discounts based on regular rates that hotels seldom charge.theyre listing a price, crossing it out, and hyping a lower price  and often adding warnings like only two rooms left! or 19 other travelers are looking at this deal! because the advertised higher price doesnt represent a prevailing rate in fact, the lower price is the prevailing rate, as its available everywhere  we believe these tactics are deceptive, brasler said. theres no rush anyway. in our research we found rates tend to go down the longer we waited to book.whats going on here?most of the well-known online travel agencies are owned by just two companies expedia (expedia, orbitz, travelocity, hotels.com, hotwire) and booking holdings, formerly priceline group (agoda, booking.com, kayak, priceline).checkbook believes this lack of competition hurts consumers. expedia and booking holdings disagree. they say they are simply online marketers who display prices set by the hotels.representatives from both companies told nbc news better that many hotel chains require parity agreements that prohibit them from undercutting the rate set by the hotel.we dont set the prices, they set the prices, said leslie cafferty, senior vice president of communications at booking holdings. but the agreement is that theyll list the same price wherever they list it. so, if they list the room at $100 a night on their website, then they will list it at $100 on our website.dave mcnamee, expedias director of communications, offered a similar sentiment. the value we offer our customers is matching travelers with the best hotel for their needs at the best price available for us to offer, mcnamee said in a statement.expedia suggested checkbook found minimal price variation because they only looked at the base rates set by the hotels and did not log-in to take advantage of the deals offered to members.it is incredibly easy for travelers to save up to 10 percent or more on over 175,000 participating hotels just by simply signing up and logging in to expedia.com, mcnamee told nbc news better.checkbooks brasler told us they did not include these membership discounts in their analysis, but they did check what each site offered as unlockable rates  not otherwise available when searching the internet.we found sometimes these rates knocked off up to 10 percent from the prevailing rate. so, not exactly a game changer, but its worth checking for these discounts before clicking buy, he said.expedia noted that bundling  booking a flight and hotel at the same time  can result in significant savings. a new option, add-on advantage, allows travelers to qualify for hotel discounts of up to 43 percent at any point before their trip, if they book a flight, car or package on expedia.com, the company said.mystery shopping can save you a bundlecharlie leocha, president and co-founder of the non-profit group travelers united, says consumers can use online travel sites to do something they cant do on a hotel website  compare prices across different lodging brands.this is where the internet lets the free market really work on behalf of consumers, leocha said.if you want to stay at a specific hotel and dont care about comparison shopping, leocha suggests going to the hotels website. by booking direct you may get free upgrades or expert perks.if you really want to save money, you need to book with sites that offer mystery deals, where you dont know the name of the hotel until your credit card purchased the room.checkbooks survey found that the only way to consistently save a lot of money on hotel stays is to book a mystery room with hotwire hot rate or priceline express deal. they beat the prevailing rate offered by most other travel sites and hotels by about 38 percent, checkbook found.in head-to-head competition, hotwire hot rate usually beat priceline express deals. of the 24 bookings checkbook did this way, hotwire had a lower price than priceline 16 times, priceline won five times and there were three ties.booking this way is not as risky as you might assume, leocha told nbc news better. there are so many filters  it tells you the star level and the exact area youre going to stay  that you can almost tell which one or two hotels youre going to end up getting. i use the priceline service and personally i average a savings of somewhere between 30 and 50 percent.if you want to stay at a specific property and dont want to risk a mystery-rate booking, checkbooks shopping tests found that the websites goseek and snaptravel were the next-cheapest options.checkbook also provides advice on how to avoid trouble when booking a mystery room.more travel hacks and tipssave $520 (or more) on your next flight with these 4 airfare hackshow to pack a carry-on (so you dont need to check a bag)the top safety mistakes we make when we fly, according to flight attendantshow beat back flight anxietyhow to find the best travel rewards credit card for youwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

sure, chipotle offers food with integrity, but weve been down this road before when talking about clean labels at other chains, like panera bread. im all for food sourced from better ingredients, like poultry raised without antibiotics and food made without artificial additives, but while these sourcing practices are great, they dont always indicate the healthfulness of every menu item.case in point: a burrito from chipotle starts with a white flour tortilla, and may go further downhill with the addition of white rice. a few fillings later, including queso, cheese and sour cream, and youll wind up with a meal that clocks in at more than 1600 calories  the amount that meets the daily calorie requirements for many women. even when considering that 2,000 calories is the amount that food labels list to standardize the daily values, this exceeds 80 percent of the daily needs for most people. plus, all of those overly refined grains arent doing you any favors.its easy to see how you can quickly take a wrong turn at chipotle. but just as easily, you can create a variety of light, healthy, filling and incredibly delicious meals. as with many restaurant meals, customization is key! here are some customization tips followed by some satisfying meal ideas.go easy on the guaci hate to be the one to break the news, but its possible to get too much of a good thing. i frequently spot these healthy food portion problems among my clients, and the fact is, even healthy fare, including nuts, avocados (and avo-based foods, like guac) can be eaten in excess of our needs, which could be why your clothes arent fitting well. get the guac on the side and use about half the amount they dish up.consider a half portion of brown ricequality carbs, including brown rice, black and pinto beans, and corn salsa, are easy to come by at chipotle, but adding each of them to your bowl could put you on the other side of light. dont get weighed down with starchy carbs. instead, choose a half portion of brown rice, or skip it in favor of extra veggies.double down on veggiesbetween the crunchy romaine, the flavorful fajita blend, and the zippy fresh tomato salsa, you can take any meal to the next level of healthy by doubling up on veggie portions.embrace the beansblack beans and pinto beans are a prime source of fiber  between 7 and 8 grams, depending on which you choose. while we need 25 to 38 grams of this nutrient, most americans get just 16 grams. beyond fiber, beans have some pretty great perks. one recent study found that adding  to  cup of pulses, which includes beans in addition to peas, lentils, and chickpeas, can prompt weight loss, even without other behavior changes (like killer workouts!). because theyre a rich source of nutrients, eating beans can improve your overall diet quality, and theyve also been shown to reduce your risk of diabetes and protect you from heart disease. at chipotle, the beans are vegan, making them a great protein choice for people who dont eat meat.ask for a pinch of cheeseyou know when you ask for a little cheese and the server goes in for a fistful? theres nothing wrong with a little cheese, but there is a difference between a little and a lot. for most people, a big pinch is probably going to be a better portion than a fist.go for a bowlthe giant soft flour tortilla that keeps the burrito fillings contained has four times a standard serving of processed grains. that means excessive amounts of calories and carbs. beyond the obvious issues, the calories from processed foods like this burrito arent handled the same way in your body as whole foods. one four-year study found that eating refined grains and sweets was linked to small, but measurable weight gain, while eating more whole foods was linked to weight loss. another study looking at two cheese sandwiches containing equal calories found that the women who consumed the whole foods version made with whole grain bread burned 50 percent more calories after the meal compared to those fed the white bread version. the bottom line: youre better off leaving the processed, bread-y burrito behind.now that you know how to customize a healthy order at chipotle, heres how that translates to your plate.burrito bowl: a half portion of brown rice, double romaine and fajita veggies, a portion of black beans, a protein (lets say steak, which pairs perfectly with the other ingredients suggested here), a scoop of fresh tomato salsa, and a half serving of guac. this meal gets creaminess from the guac so you can skip the cheese in this instance. all told, youll get 15 grams of fiber and 36 grams of protein to curb hunger for hours. for similar nutrition stats, you could swap out the half portion of brown rice for a scoop of the corn salsa since corn is considered a whole grain.salad bowl: keep things even lighter by ordering a salad bowl. the romaine base, along with your choice of protein (such as chicken), black beans, flavorful fajita veggies, fresh tomato salsa, and a pinch of cheese provides 10 grams of fiber and 48 grams of protein, plus about 1/3 of your daily calcium and iron needs. since the salsa and the fajita veggies are packed with flavor, you can skip the dressing or order it on the side to drizzle on as needed. if youd like, add the corn salsa, which brings more whole grain fiber, and top with a dollop of guac.while its easy to build fresh-tasting and nutritious meals at chipotle, one thing to keep in mind is that even when carefully chosen, these meals are high in sodium, clocking in at about half of the upper amount you should eat in a day. this is notorious among restaurant fare so your best bet is to limit the meals you eat out, and when you do dine out, make sure to flush all that extra salt with plenty of water and fresh produce throughout the day. fresh fruits and veggies provide potassium, which offsets some of the impact of sodium on blood pressure.more tips and tricks from a nutritionisthow to build a better smoothiethe healthiest things to eat at panera breadhealthy trader joes products nutritionists swear by11 delicious avocado recipes that dont involve avocado toastseriously filling salads youll want to eat all summerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

once i switched from full-time employment to full-time freelance (aka, being self-employed and working from home), there were a lot of things i came to miss about office life, such as the set schedule and being around co-workers. one aspect ive never been remotely nostalgic about was the open office setting, which the last company i worked for transitioned to shortly before i left.cubicles arent great (and i dont miss those, either), but at least they afforded me a sense of privacy and clear boundaries. much of my job as an editor required quiet time to read, write and call sources and little of this work could get done comfortably in an environment stripped of privacy and gushing with noise. i was also constantly distracted by the conversations around me. it was tough to book a conference room because editorial was competing with every other department whose employees were just as eagerly seeking peace. my colleagues and i mostly used email and online chatting to communicate so that we wouldnt have to shout.noise pollution is real, and its impacting employees livesthese problems seem to come with the territory of open office life. the harvard business school recently published studies showing that in open offices, employees have significantly less face-to-face interaction (by about 70 percent) than they do when they have spatial boundaries, while electronic communications surge by as much as 50 percent. a separate study by oxford economics concluded that noise pollution in open offices has reached epidemic levels, with 63 percent of employees stating that they lack quiet space for work, which in turn has a negative effect on their productivity, satisfaction and well-being.these findings are troubling, particularly since the open office plan is becoming increasingly common, fueled not only by cost-efficiency, but by the idea that being in a boundless space nurtures a collaborative spirit, ultimately enabling you and your teammates to work more fluidly together  resulting in sort of the opposite effect of cubicles.open office plans are aimed to bring us togetherwe actually saw the rise of the cubicle in the 1960s as a means of trying to inject personal identity and private space into the one-size-fits-all open office, says jonathan webb, vp of workplace strategy at ki. over the course of time, people began to associate cubicles with a lack of individuality, which is part of the reason we see a rise of open offices today, [which were] also popularized by tech giants like facebook, microsoft and google seeking to bolster collaboration. firms in other industries have taken note of tech companies rapid growth and popular work cultures, so ceos across the board have opted for open office plans. they see the innovation coming out of firms in silicon valley and think that open offices might be a part of fostering that success.flexibility is paramountits a great idea, but one that, in practice, evidently isnt working for everyone. this could come down to execution. ceos need to take the time (and possibly, the money) to implement open office plans that are designed with workers various needs in mind. webb suggests they these four main work styles: focus, interaction, regenerative and ideation.in practice, most workers transition between all of these work styles at different points in their work day or week, [and] all of these require different workspaces, says webb. for workers who prefer more privacy or who seek an area to focus on individual work, walled-in spaces or cubicles can be useful. height-adjustable screens allow workers to create both shared and private spaces and switch between them with a quick push or pull. they help balance offices with open floor plans for when employees want to take a private phone call or tune out possible distractions. employers can also create a sense of openness while maintaining privacy through movable walls and glass walls.webb adds that ceos often get it wrong by going too far to one end of the spectrum with the open office. workplaces cant be one-size-fits-all, whether thats a completely open office or a cubicle farm.the workplace needs to be something in-between and then some, with a commitment to balance.until recently, everyone thought they wanted to move to completely open office environments, says christopher k. m. leach, president of contract furnishings in denver. i think were now seeing the pendulum swing back to the middle, where well find some balance between providing quiet spaces for those who need privacy, while still keeping collaborative places for more social workers to gather.changing the space could help ceos retain talentrearranging or remodeling an office space to better accommodate employees spatial preferences may sound like an unwieldy investment, but in a tight labor market, companies should consider it. oxford economics report also found that employees affected by noise pollution in office environments are more likely to say they may leave their job in the next six months.additionally, the solutions dont have to include tearing down (or putting up) walls. there are a number of individual workstation screens and portable cubicles (for lack of a less dreadful sounding term) available for purchase. room is a company that makes soundproof phone booths made of recycled plastic bottles, an innovation that co-founder morten meisner-jensen says was inspired by a rising need among managers to provide personal space to workers in open office environments.its a problem for the little startup as well as for some of the largest companies in the world, meisner-jensen tells nbc news better.how to improve your open office environmentin my experience with an open office, the chances of any kind of office redesign were low, to say the least. i once complained about the chronic noise (and the fact that i was literally rubbing elbows with the person beside me, who worked in another department) to my manager, but he simply shrugged at his apparent helplessness in the matter. others were also unhappy, but this was a company of some 400 people who were working crazy hours. architectural adjustments just werent on the table at the time.what can you do when youve got no choice but to work in this noisy, chaotic environment?heres what jamie gruman, ph.d., a psychologist and a professor of organizational behavior at the college of business and economics at the university of guelph suggests:take a break. research shows that the noise associated with open offices can be stressful, [so] you should consider periodically leaving the office during regularly scheduled breaks to escape the stress and let your physiological systems return to baseline levels. short breaks from an open office, such as getting outside for a few minutes to read a magazine or relax in a park, can give you a boost and make you better at your tasks when you get back to work.get some alone time. given that the need for privacy and solitude is breached in an open office, make an effort to recapture these. go for a walk alone on your lunch break. if there are rooms available for meetings or for when you need to concentrate, reserve them for getting some work done. if there are quiet corners in which you can work, use them. if working from home is an option, exploit it.keep a pair of headphones at your desk. use headphones to either play music or cancel out ambient noise. (if you like working with music, you may want to create a positivity soundtrack.)put in some face time. given that open offices have been shown to compromise performance because they stimulate more electronically-mediated communication, make sure that key information you send to team members is understood properly. spend enough time face-to-face to get work done right. the last thing you want to do is spend more time in the open office fixing problems that arose due to miscommunication.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to build a work wardrobe on a budgethow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

whether youre the reader who rips through a new book each week or the one still slogging through that bestseller your friend recommended months ago, psychologists (and their research) say your time is being well spent.and if its been a while since your last date with a good book, the experts have a few reasons that might convince you to give it another go.one of the benefits to reading fiction is simply that it provides enjoyment and pleasure, melanie green, phd, associate professor in the department of communication at university at buffalo, tells nbc news better. it can provide an escape from boredom or stress.plus, reading has been shown to help us better understand and interact with other people, keep our brains sharp, expand our world views and grow as individuals, green says. stories allow us to feel connected with others and part of something bigger than ourselves.green researches the idea of transportation  or what makes it possible to get lost in a book. she says its more likely to happen if youre reading a high-quality text, but quality in this case is subjective and something that gets determined by you. for some its a quick-moving plot thats critical, while for others engaging characters or a poetic writing style is most important if you want to get lost in the storyline. and some people are just more interested in one type of story (romance, for instance) versus another (thriller), she adds.regardless of the specific volumes that suck you in the most, here are just some of the things that can happen when you get lost in a novel.stories about other people teach us to be the types of people we want to bereading makes us think and feel in new and different ways, explains keith oatley, phd, professor emeritus in the department of applied psychology and human development at university of toronto. you give up some of your own habits and thoughts, and you take on your own idea of being a different person in circumstances that you might otherwise never had been in.back in 2009, oatley and his colleagues found that after reading one of two different versions of the same story  one an original piece of fiction and the other a retelling of the same story written in a non-fiction style  participants who read fiction changed in their personality traits more than those who read the non-fiction version of the story, and reported feeling higher levels of emotions.objectively, oatley and his colleagues havent measured whether these changes might be labeled as good or positive, but he says to think about it in terms of personal growth akin to how we want kids to grow and develop in their own ways (not because society is telling them to be one person or another).it is very important in the social world to understand others, to understand ourselves, and not just get stuck, he says.reading helps provide that sense of belonging that all humans needreading can give us a sense of belongingness that we all instinctively want as human beings, according to green.researchers at the university at buffalo showed in an experiment that reading actually satisfies that need for human connection because it can mimic what we feel during real social interactions. a group of 140 undergraduate students were asked to read either twilight or harry potter and the sorcerers stone for a half-hour. afterward the students reported (psychologically-speaking) becoming part of the characters worlds during that time and having some of the same feelings of satisfaction and happiness that we get from real-world social interactions.social connection is a strong, human need, the studys author shira gabriel, phd, associate professor of psychology at ub, said in a press release shortly after the research was published. anytime we feel connected to others, we feel good in general and feel good about our lives.it bolsters all sorts of social skillsreading fiction also helps us better understand, connect with and interact with others in the real world (after we put that book down).we get to enter the minds of these other people. and in doing that we understand other people better, oatley says. research from he and his colleagues showed that people who reported reading the most fiction scored higher on both empathy tests and social ability tests.if you can identify with a character in some way, you actually get to lead a different life (temporarily and, of course, in a limited way), says oatley. multiple studies have replicated these findings, oatley says. and data suggests the same area of the brain actually gets fired up when people read and comprehend fictional stories, as gets activated when were in the process of understanding other people.think of learning how to fly an airplane by using a flight simulator in addition to flying an actual plane. you get to encounter a lot of different scenarios where youre completely safe, but you can learn a lot about what to do in an emergency, unusual weather conditions, and more. fiction is the minds flight simulator, oatley says.and importantly, the research shows its reading fiction that improves empathy and not the other way around, oatley adds. (it isnt that people who are empathetic happen to prefer to read more.)reading is good for our brains and may even help us live longerweve all heard from countless grade-school teachers that reading improves our vocabulary. but neuroscience research shows its good for other cognitive skills, too, by stimulating the neural networks in the brain that improve our social cognition and conceptual processing of abstract content. and evidence suggests that may have measurable benefits in terms of health.reading, by engaging the brain, may keep the brain active enough to prevent cognitive decline that is associated with a variety of diseases associated with earlier mortality, explains avni bavishi, an md candidate at the feinberg school of medicine at northwestern university.a 2013 study found that people who reported reading and doing other similarly cognitively stimulating activities throughout their lives had less cognitive decline compared with people who didnt read or engage in other such stimulating activities as much. and a subsequent study by bavishi and colleagues showed that people who report reading more actually live longer on average compared with individuals who didnt report reading.getting lost in a good book provides the good kind of escapeand finally, if you need a break from the daily grind or everyday stressors, reading can take your mind away from whats worrying you  in a good way  by letting you temporarily escape, green says. people who are absorbed in a story world arent ruminating on their own personal concerns.studies show that several types of media, from books to tv shows to music, can definitely help with mood management.of course, ignoring a problem in the real world isnt the answer, but spending too much time thinking about things that are out of your control (like current events, a pending job offer or family squabbles) isnt good either, green says. so the next time youre feeling anxious or stressed, use it as an excuse to dust off the novel on your bedside table.more stress busting tipsadults need recess too. heres why you should make time to play.what is sophrology, the latest stress-busting mindfulness trend?stressed? heres how to tap into a zen feeling (almost) instantlyhow to bounce back from headline stress disorderwhy the simple act of being in nature helps you de-stresswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

last night was crazy. not in the las vegas sense of over-imbibing and forgetting where your hotel room is kind of crazy, but the kind where you go to a toga foam party and everyone ends up naked in a sea of glorious, sudsy, wild debauchery. and that was only the first night i spent at jamaicas hedonism ii, a clothing-optional resort situated against the sparkling blue caribbean sea.my experience at a nudist resortin the months and weeks leading up to the trip, id be lying if i didnt tell you i was terrified of stripping down in front of strangers whose minds i couldnt stop from judgement. and yet, despite my fears, my conservative mennonite upbringing, and my tendency to lean prude, it was a keen desire for exploring the unknown that fueled me both early on and throughout a wild five days.it fueled me during check in, when everyone eyed me with a knowing smile, saying, youre a virgin to the resort, arent you?, and it kept me going upon that first, wide-eyed walk across campus to my room where, in modest street clothes, it finally hit me that i was fully immersed in a nudist community.perhaps the most surprising part of taking a nacation  a nude vacation  was just how quickly my inhibitions, insecurities and shock melted away. within three hours of arrival, i tepidly disrobed to experience the ocean like i never had before: completely naked. by day three, i was walking across campus sans-clothing, somehow liberated from a long list of self-perceived body flaws ive written about myself over the years.i learned that time spent in the pool is much better without being confined in an uncomfortable bathing suit youre constantly adjusting, that for the most part humans see the beauty in others and the flaws dont actually matter, and that freeing yourself from a prison of anxiety-driven inhibitions can lift a weight you didnt even realize you were holding.the nacation trendthe nudist crowd, in my personal experience, is exceptionally diverse. not just in ethnicity, but in age, in profession, in religion, and in background. while sipping red stripe in the nude pool, i chatted with a well-known rabbis daughter  a 50-something white woman from new york whod been to the resort 17 times. i spoke to a timid black couple there for the first time celebrating their anniversary and, conversely, to a long-time married couple whod been over 30 times and clearly knew how to keep the spark alive.it turns out, the nacation industry is pretty substantial. for example, a florida-focused economic study conducted in 2017 by the american association for nude recreation (aanr) and american association for nude travel florida region learned that 4.3 billion was directly spent on nude travel in the state (which has over 30 nudist resorts) in 2016. florida obviously isnt alone. even traditional companies, such as carnival, are now catering to the nacation trend.clearly, more people are taking these sorts of trips than what youd assume. the question is why? and why are so many of them repeat attenders? though its impossible to provide a blanket answer, we can at least offer psychologist-backed speculation.there are several reasons why some people are drawn to a nude vacation, says dr. sanam hafeez, a neuropsychologist based in new york city. some people have routine lives. they wake up, go to work, work, return home, and have this secure outward persona. they also have another side to themselves that wants to be self-expressed and free. a nude vacation experience for some satisfies that.she likens this kind of vacation to the thrill some people feel when camping, scaling a mountain or finishing a marathon.dr. gail saltz, associate professor of psychiatry at the new york presbyterian hospital weill-cornell school of medicine, agrees, speaking more to the sexualized energy of a resort like hedonism or floridas cypress cove nudist resort.many, many people have at least unconsciously some sexual inhibitions, and they may long to feel less conflicted and more uninhibited, she says. having an entity  like a resort  that other people endorse and subscribe to and gives permission to be extremely uninhibited (and in fact, for our society, unusually permissive), helps these people to feel excited and free in a way they normally cannot.in these environments, permission is being given to view other bodies and to exhibit your own body, both of which can be arousing, sexually exciting, and confidence-building, as it satisfies normal human voyeuristic and exhibitionistic desires, she explains. theres also an emotional nakedness that comes with actually stripping away clothes.our clothing tells people who we are. they can make assumptions about what we do for a living, where we may live, just by observing what we are wearing, says dr. hafeez. if a man is in a suit and tie youll think hes a corporate guy, stiff and buttoned up. take that same guy fully naked and hes just a human. put him in a nudist vacation with others who are nude, and hell feel confident and able to just be himself without the armor of clothing. when you can walk around naked in all of your truth theres power in that for people.the bottom line is that when youre free to explore  without judgement and within the confines of a safe, organized environment with other like-minded people  it can be very freeing and self-actualizing experience.4 ways to strip inhibitions without undressingnot quite ready to strip down and hit up the nude beach? there are still plenty of other ways you can release those inhibitions and harness a similar sense of freedom. here are four places to start.discuss fantasies. permission-giving can be attained in other ways besides getting naked. dr. saltz says, discussing fantasies with a partner, discussing sexual ideas, having sexual play and being affirming about each of these also gives each other permission to be more sexual in a guilt-free, less inhibited way.hit the dance club. dr. hafeez says that dancing is a great way to connect to your body and, if a partner is there, a way to connect to theirs, as well.get acquainted with nature. hiking and connecting with nature, taking in beautiful scenery, and going for a swim in a natural body of water like a river, lake or beach can be very freeing, says dr. hafeez.take an adventurous vacation. step outside of your travel safety net and plan a trip thats completely unlike anything youve done before. maybe its a week spent camping in the amazon jungle, a long weekend exploring the canyons of the great southwest, or going skiing instead of snorkeling  just this once.more travel hacks and tipssave $520 (or more) on your next flight with these 4 airfare hackshow to pack a carry-on (so you dont need to check a bag)the top safety mistakes we make when we fly, according to flight attendantshow beat back flight anxietyhow to find the best travel rewards credit card for youwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

what does summer sound like?for me, right now, it sounds like i like it, the billboard-topping single by cardi b, bad bunny and j balvin. its a ferocious beast of a pop song with blaring horns, sizzling lyrics, a boisterous latin-influenced beat and an insanely catchy hook  and its everywhere. i hear it not only on mainstream radio when im driving, but blasting out of other peoples cars when theyre driving. i hear it in the supermarket, the bodega and at the gym. this past weekend it played a couple times at a barbecue i attended. maybe its a stretch to say its definitively the sound of summer, which ushers in a slew of shiny mega hits every year, but its definitely on the soundtrack of summer 2018, along with songs like in my feelings by drake and girls like you by maroon 5 featuring cardi b.dynamic pop music is being churned out all year long, but theres something about summer that makes certain new songs stand out more incandescently, delivering them to the level of seasonal anthems that we all know and love (or cant stand). intrigued by the possible science behind this phenomenon brain.fms director of science, kevin j.p. woods, phd, analyzed what these tunes of summer have in common in an effort to determine why theyre such slam dunk hits.the ingredients of a smash hit singlewoods dissected the compositional factors of several smash hits: \"gods plan\" by drake; \"nice for what\" by drake, \"finesse\" by bruno mars featuring cardi b,\"the middle\" by zedd, maren morris, grey, controlla\" by drake, fitness by lizzo and cardi bs \"i like it\".in his appraisal, all these songs shared the following qualities.vocals that dominate. human voices are important in our lives, so in auditory neuroscience we have a concept called salience used to refer to the phenomenon of things grabbing your attention, explains woods. the voice is particularly known to grab your attention, relative to other sources of sound at same volume or frequency. most pop music showcases the human voice, but this is particularly true of summer hits, since often the relevance to the season is most apparent through the lyrical content.powerful percussion that doesnt inhibit the vocals. aside from the obvious and important musical function of driving the beat, having percussion as the primary instrument helps grab your attention, but does so without making the lyrics hard to understand, as can happen in rock or metal, says woods, noting that the sound of a drum also sends a quick and fleeting bolt of acoustic energy that signals a the brains response to change. the more sudden the change, the more it grabs your attention.sparse or lowered instrumental backing. the song i like it has a lot going on instrumentally, but even this tune, like the others woods analyzed, features instrumental parts that sit outside the frequency region inhabited by the vocals and that are musically simple says woods. this allows the vocals to dominate the track without getting lost in other sounds, making the lyrics easier to understand. our brains appreciate this compartmentalization, if you will, because when sounds contain the same frequency they may be rendered indistinguishable, woods explains, adding that a similar effect happens when you try to listen to two conversations on either side of you at the same time  the information is confusing to track all at once.breaks, drops, surprise transitions and shock value. breaks are brief silent gaps in the music, which are surprising and build suspense until the sound returns, says woods. drops are moments when new instruments burst onto the scene, often with dramatic bass and rhythmic ferocity. transitions between sections within a song can surprise the listener with textural or stylistic contrast. all three of these devices surprise the audience and drag our attention to the music. childish gambinos this is america begins and ends with sections that are radically different than the main body of the track, making for incredible shock value.pop music and summer naturally go togethermy question after hearing all this was, wait  doesnt all mainstream pop music use these principles? generally, woods agreed that, yes, it does, but adds that these summer hits take these intrinsic pop values to the max, leaving little room for any experimentation that could interfere with the tried and true essentials.but theres another core aspect to consider other than what the song is doing, and thats what were doing. in the summer, with its long days and warm nights, we tend to be especially apt to mingle, and pop music pairs well with communal behavior.music is inherently a social phenomenon that we share with others, says michael grabowski, ph.d., associate professor in the department of communication and manhattan college and the editor of neuroscience and media. the fact that in summertime people are more likely to get together and stay out late means more opportunity to connect with others, and when doing so with music, you can make [positive] associations between the music youre listening to and the emotions youre having while socializing.your brain loves a combination of predictability and surpriseconnecting with people while listening to upbeat, melodic pop music may be extra satisfying because (whether we intellectually like pop or not), our brains like the painless puzzle of a pop song.pop songs use a combination of repetition and novelty so your brain can recognize the pattern quickly which is what the brain is made for  to predict what comes next, says grabowski. a pop song has a pattern of sounds: a melody, (which is overarching commonality to a pop song), usually four or less chords, simple chord progressions, and the verse/chorus structure. this structure lets you know what is coming next. often these songs will have a bridge, which introduces a different tempo and different set of chords that are new and novel. so now were paying attention because the pattern has changed. then, we conclude with the chorus, which is satisfying because weve returned to the pattern. that gives us a little release of dopamine, and is partly why pop music is so appealing.cant stand to hear it again? your brain is tired of solving the puzzleone common grievance with these summer hits and other pop songs weve heard over and over again is that we become tired of them. why is that? does our brain have some limit on how many times it can enjoy a predictable pattern before it gets bored?this feeling that youll pull your hair out if you hear that song again (which i experience with let it go) is a classic case of being exposed to a pattern so often youve completely internalized it and committed it to auditory memory, says grabowski. if you keep hearing it over again you wont want any more exposure to it.if youre sick of the song, give it a few yearsbut unlike with christmas music, which we may dread just thinking about because weve heard it so dang much, we probably wont react negatively to a pop hit we once loved if we let it rest for a number or years.if you go away from a song and then come back to it years later youll be retrieving that memory from distant past and likely have a nostalgic feeling, says grabowski. most likely, youll remember the first time you heard it and realize how much you once loved it.im just about reaching that point of needing to take a good long break from some of these summer hits, but its nice to know that a couple years down the road, i may return to the joy i felt when i first heard them.more \"this is your brain on\"what the beach does to your brainyour brain on a dietsmiling can trick your brain into happiness (and boost your health)your brain on prayer and meditiationthe science behind being hangrywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

several months before we were engaged, my fianc patrick inquired about what sort of rings i liked. i knew why he was asking, so i cut to the chase and sent him a detailed and terribly unromantic email describing my dream engagement ring to a tee (along with links to sites), and then put in bold font: do not spend a lot; if you do i will say no.i was joking of course, but not about my desire for him to stick to a sensible budget, since we were living more or less paycheck-to-paycheck at the time.patrick did end up spending a tad more than i would have liked, but it wasnt outrageous and the ring is just what i would have picked for myself (probably because it came from one of the links i sent him). three years later, as were finally about to walk down the aisle, i stumbled across research that has me wondering whether being financially shrewd about the engagement ring (and now about our wedding) wont only help our bank accounts, but also help our marriages odds of lasting.you cant buy love  but the wedding industry would beg to differthe research, co-authored by andrew francis-tan, a visiting associate professor at the lee kuan yew school of public policy at the national university of singapore and hugo m. mialon, associate professor and director of undergraduate studies in the department of economics at emory university, examined the association between wedding spending and marriage duration using data from their survey of over 3,000 ever-married adults in the u.s. the motivation of the research was to uncover whether spending a fortune on a ring and a wedding, (as were frequently inclined to do, often to our own regret) impacts the longevity of a marriage.wedding industry advertising has fueled the norm that spending large amounts on the engagement ring and wedding is an indication of commitment or is helpful for a marriage to be successful, says mialon. in either case, the general message is that wedding spending and marriage duration are positively correlated.but thats not the case.theres a sweet spot for how much a ring shouldnt costin their research, francis-tan and mialon found that men who spent between $2,000 and $4,000 on an engagement ring had a higher rate of divorce (of about 1.3 times) than men who spent between $500 and $2,000.but the pendulum swings the other way, too. spending less than $500 on an engagement ring was found to be associated with higher divorce rates in the sample of women surveyed.this information could lead one to surmise that between a ring between $500 and $2000 is the best amount to spend, if you want to lower the odds of divorce, but thats not the best way to look at this analysis, which tan-francis asserts does not prove that high expenses on the engagement ring and wedding ceremony cause divorce, only that high expenses on the engagement ring and wedding ceremony are positively correlated with divorce, holding constant a number of demographic and relationship characteristics, including income.its not about the price tag, its about what you can affordwhat this research lays a case for is that splurging on forever diamonds and extravagant weddings wont improve your chances of staying together, and could, in some ways, hurt them. why? possibly because youre focusing less on forming an enduring union than you are on celebrating the beginning of one, and maybe even digging a debt hole in the process.what could explain the observed negative association between wedding expenses and marriage duration? perhaps those couples who tend to have lavish weddings are simply those couples who tend not to be the best match for each other, says mialon. on the other hand, it is also possible that having an expensive wedding burdens couples financially (conditioning on their income) in a way that may later strain their marriage. in the paper, we present some evidence that those who spent a lot on their wedding were more likely to report that debt resulting from wedding expenses caused stress in their marriage, and there is sizable literature in economics and sociology linking economic stress and marital dissolution.not only might the impact of big spending strain a marriage, it creates opportunity for arguments.the more elaborate an event is, the more opportunities there are to fight over money and who pays for what, says tracy brisson, a wedding officiant and the owner of savannah custom weddings &amp; elopements. that resentment can carry over into the beginning of a marriage.a ring that doesnt distract you from realitya statement engagement ring was never something id yearned for, but i did find myself upping the filters on instagram to make my ring look sparklier when first sharing it on social media. when showing off the ring in person, i went on out-of-character rants about how much i loved simple, vintage-inspired styles and how much i disliked gaudy baubles. it was almost like i was defending my ring from those who may silently judge it as not enough. i couldnt understand why i was behaving this way when i knew the ring was exactly what i wanted, and that it had been far from cheap. what was my problem? well, it probably had little to do with the ring.i think all of us, when we get engaged, have to take a painful look within and recognize our childhood fantasies about the fairytale that happens when you find the one, says dr. fran walfish. what comes with finding the one is a reasonable amount of disappointment. its not that weve settled, its that were reaching a point where were realizing we have to decide what is priority, and that we cant get every single thing we want in a partner.had i been presented a more decadent ring, immediately followed by a luxurious whirlwind wedding (rather than waiting, as we did, to plan a smaller affair), perhaps i would have been more distracted from what i really needed to be focusing on: enforcing a strong and healthy partnership.focusing on what really matterslavish spending and focus on materialism may be a distraction from other issues in the relationship, and the planning of a wedding/engagement takes up a lot of time and energy invested towards the event which may be a welcome distraction for couples who do not have a solid foundation or have serious concerns about the relationship to begin with, says christie tcharkhoutian, a licensed marriage and family therapist.oftentimes planning a wedding, especially an extravagant one, can feel like a full-time job that consumes couples with a focus on the guests, the photos, the luxuries and what they would appreciate or what would make them happy. this takes away from the crucial time a couple needs to prepare for the wedding and ask the necessary questions that would indicate they want to spend the rest of their lives with each other, she adds. many couples i see in therapy opt to try pre-engagement counseling, [so] whether they choose to splurge on their engagement ring [or not], they have asked each other all the right questions and worked through the doubts and are able to enjoy the season without using material aspects to cloud their judgment or distract from what the true meaning and reasons for marriage are. a relationship built off of intangible intimacy rather than a lavish lifestyle is much more likely to not only last, but thrive into a loving partnership that lasts for a lifetime.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimehow the simple act of holding hands brought this couple closer than everwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

sleep is pretty much my favorite pastime. over the years, even as other hobbies have come and gone  crocheting, piano playing and terrarium-making among them  snoozing has always been my preferred way to spend downtime.and despite insomnia running in my family, ive always been blessed enough to be able to sleep when i want to, including during bad movies (sorry \"batman v superman\"), airport layovers and morning train rides to work. ive always been lucky when it comes to sleep ... until recently. as ive gotten older, and particularly during the warmer months of the year, i find it harder and harder to get to sleep and get the rest i need. what gives?longer days certainly make it hard to get to bed on time, says psychiatrist and sleep medicine specialist dr. alex dimitriu. with a sunset time of 8 [p.m.], its easy to be outside later (enjoying the cooler evening), then come home and start the regular evening routine. but now everything may be happening two to three hours later than in the winter months, so its easy to get to bed too late.add to that busy social and work schedules, technology and stuffy bedrooms due to higher temps, and its no wonder that summer can be tough on our sleep schedules. in the middle of the latest heat wave, i set out to find out the snoozing mistakes to avoid in the summer.how much sleep is enough?first things first, how much sleep should you actually be getting? we may accept the fact that were willing to sacrifice a few hours of shuteye to take advantage of more daylight, but how do we know when weve crossed the line into sleep deprivation? \"the answer is enough to not feel tired throughout the next day, and not require three orders of starbucks to avoid being sleepy,\" dimitriu says.the time between noon and 4 p.m. will tell you a lot, he says. its normal to feel a little sleepy during this time, but people who do not get enough sleep will often feel \"significantly sleepy\" in this window. the epworth sleepiness scale is also 3-minute test that can point out if you are abnormally sleepy or getting enough zs.stick to a pre-sleep routinethe best thing you can do to continue getting some shut-eye is to stick to a pre-sleep routine, says sleep wellness expert nancy rothstein of the sleep ambassador and host of the sleep radio show. most people dont prepare for sleep, rothstein says. i would say in the half hour or the hour before bed you have to unwind. even if your schedule gets a bit erratic in the summer with after work happy hours or outdoor concerts, taking time to do the same routine each evening can help put you in a relaxed mindset before bed.so, what exactly should you do in that time? take a shower or bath, chat with your partner, read a book (not on a tech device) or try a mindfulness exercise, rothstein recommends. then you have to look at this as a transition to sleep, she says. whatever it is, your brain and your body really relish that transition.make some sacrificeswarmer months are an ideal time to get outdoors and perhaps make more plans with family and friends than you tend to during the colder months. but be sure that you are swapping the tech time for fun outdoor activities. cut the tv or screen time, dimitriu says. its okay to be out with friends later than usual, and to get home at 9 [p.m.] on a weekday.what is not the best idea is to then spend 3-4 hours scrolling through instagram and watching through netflix like you might in the winter months when you get home earlier. keep as close as possible to your usual bedtime  and if youre getting home later because youre out doing something fun, nix tv time or some usual evening errands, dimitriu says.create a summer sleep sanctuaryits important to create a sleep sanctuary for yourself, particularly as the temperature climbs since stuffy rooms are the enemy of shut eye. for people who dont have ac, invest in your sleep with a good fan, rothstein says. change your linens to thinner fabric and sleep in lighter, natural fabrics than during winter months. if youre waking up sweating, then you have too much bedding or you need to get a fan, she says.what is your body saying to you and are you listening? your body is going to tell you by sweating or shivering or feeling comfortable. and what to do about the light streaming through your window? rothstein recommends buying some blackout curtains to keep the sunshine from disturbing your sleep. for a cheaper alternative, try a sleep mask, she says.pay attention to your summer menuyour summer diet may skew a bit more towards cocktails, cold brew and ice cream, but overdoing it on those goodies may wreak havoc on your sleep. excessive caffeine can be overly stimulating, alcohol can make you feel drowsy initially but negatively affect sleep quality and sweets can cause crashes, says lisa moskovitz, r.d., c.d.n., ceo and founder of the ny nutrition group. that doesnt mean you have to completely eliminate them from your diet, but make them a once in a while indulgence. \"enjoying these seasonal goodies can be fine once in a while but consuming them more often can disrupt your ability to sleep at night,\" moskovitz says.try reaching for foods that specifically help with melatonin and serotonin production, two neurotransmitters that signal to the brain its time to rest and rejuvenate, like seafood, nuts, low-fat dairy, tart cherries, whole grains and dark leafy greens, moskovitz says. aim for eating at least 3-4 hours before bed to give your body time to fully digest a big meal, or 1-2 hours for a smaller one.as for me, after hearing what i need to do to get some proper shut eye, i know what the rest of my summer will look like. you can find me with a sleep mask on, ac blasting after no more than one (maybe two?) cocktails, as i do my best imitation of holly golightly. dont mind the snoring.ready to get more zzzs? read these and rest better7 ways to actually get to bed an hour earlier tonightwhy lack of sleep is costing us billions of dollars8 sleep mistakes you can fix tonightthis is how to keep a sleep diary to actually improve your sleepi ditched the screens in bed, but thats not the only reason i sleep better16 ways to get a better nights sleep without popping a pillwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

at 337 lbs, health and beauty influencer janielle wright was afraid she would die. her body was in pain and she had trouble breathing at night.i was going to sleep worried that i wouldnt wake up the next morning, wright told nbc news better.she was also afraid that she wouldnt live to see her 3-year-old daughter, novah, grow up. that was when wright, 28, realized something had to change.this is no way to live thinking youre going to die because youre overweight and youre unhealthy, she says.in january, wright began her weight-loss journey through intermittent fasting. its a time-restricted eating method where you only allow yourself to eat within a certain window of time. wright says the method helped her lose 65 pounds so far.i just prayed and asked that [god] could see me through this journey, and could be consistent and be patient, because i feel that patience is key when it comes to weight loss, recalls wright.how it worksresearch suggests that weight loss is impacted by when we eat as much as by what we eat, which means intermittent fasting may help spur metabolism. there are several different methods for intermittent fasting, some of which are more restrictive than others. wright recommends starting out with a less restrictive regime until your body is accustomed to it.wright began intermittent fasting with the 16:8 method, which required her to eat within an 8-hour window and fast for 16 hours. she cut out breakfast, she says, and ate just two meals a day  the first at 12 p.m., and the last meal around 8 p.m.i was only eating lunch and dinner, and its meant for you not to snack too, wright explains.she says she stuck to low-carb meals, and limited her calories to between 1,800 and 2,000 calories a day. she tracked her calories on the myfitnesspal app.other intermittent fasting diets take a different approach. the 5:2 method, for example, requires you to eat as you normally would for five days a week, but on two nonconsecutive days, you eat just one meal a day. wright says she spent five months conditioning her body to the 16:8 method. at that point, she says, she switched to the 20:4 method. according to this method, you fast for 20 hours and have a 4-hour eating window.i wanted a change, says wright. i wanted to try to boost my weight loss even more.wright says you should be cautious about using a more restrictive method like the 20:4. condition your body on a less restrictive method for an extended period first, she says. since the window of time for eating on the 20:4 method is small, wright says you should be careful to space your meals apart and not eat all your calories in one sitting.ill maybe take like 30 minutes to digest some of that food, she says, and then ill go and eat the rest.make sure you eat healthyone thing wright enjoys most about intermittent fasting is that you decide what kind of foods you want to eat (she prefers a low-carb diet). but she warns against junk food.its definitely important to eat nutritious food when youre on the diet, she says. i feel like if i was doing intermittent fasting just eating pizza and burgers and fries, i feel like i wouldnt have had the amount of success i have right now.she says its important to consume all the macros your body needs  proteins, fats and carbs  and to have nutritiously diverse mealsill have egg whites and spinach, and ill have some carrots fruit on the side ... [or] ill have maybe a chicken breast with some quinoa on the side, wright says.allow yourself up to three cheat meals a monthfasting for long periods of time can become tedious. thats why wright lets herself have three cheat meals a month. whether its nachos, chinese food or a subway sandwich, cheat meals help her stay balanced, she says. but she warns not to overdo it.once im done with my cheat meal i move on, says wright.exercise consistentlywright incorporates exercise into her weight loss routine, working out out six days a week. since she had a lot of weight to lose in the beginning, she was careful not to push herself too hard at first  just a brisk 15-minute walk on the treadmill each day.but as i got more comfortable with walking on the treadmill, i upped my time and i upped my speed and my incline, she says.after seven months, wright now walks on the treadmill about 45 minutes a day. she includes high inclines and keeps at a really brisk [pace]. afterwards, she does about 30 minutes of high-intensity interval training.intermittent fasting teaches disciplinewright says intermittent fasting is effective because it taught her self control. since the rule required her to stop eating at 8 p.m., it prevented her from snacking before bed.it helped me not to go into the kitchen at night and eat cake or ice cream very late in the night, says wright. and i feel like that is why it works, because it teaches you discipline when it comes to what time youre eating your food.when you are intermittent fasting, wright explains, its easy to become obsessive about timing your meals. she says its important to not be too fixated on time.dont be so tedious with time if that makes sense, says wright. like, its okay to be a couple of minutes off  like 10, 15 minutes off. thats okay.be consistent and stay patientthe key to being successful with intermittent fasting is to be consistent and not to lose patience, advises wright.i feel like consistency is key,\" she says. \"in order for you to see [a difference] you have to be consistent.she says it took her many years to get to 337 lbs, so its important to understand that losing the weight will also take a long time. at 272 lbs, wrights weight loss journey isnt over. but she says she can do things now that she wasnt able to do before  like cross her legs when she sits and get down on the floor to play with her daughter.she says it feels amazing.this weight loss is such a blessing, and im so excited to see where this journey is going to take me, wright says. her goal is to lose 100 pounds by the years end.how to lose weight with intermittent fastinghow it works: intermittent fasting requires you to eat within a certain window of time and fast during the rest. there are several different methods for intermittent fasting, some of which are more restrictive than others. the 16:8 method, for example, requires you to eat within an 8-hour window and fast for 16 hours. you would only eat two meals a day, for example, your first meal starting at noon and your last around 8 p.m.make sure you choose healthy foods. eating healthy food is important when you are on an intermittent fasting diet. make sure you are getting all the macros you need - fat, protein, and carbs, and eat nutritiously diverse meals.allow yourself some cheat meals. intermittent fasting can become tedious over a long period of time. allow yourself to have up to three cheat meals a month, but be careful not to overdo it.exercise consistently: exercise will help boost your metabolism to lose weight. depending on how much weight you need to lose, pick a routine that works for you.intermittent fasting teaches discipline. because you cannot eat once your fasting period begins, intermittent fasting will prevent you from snacking and will train you to be disciplined around food.be consistent and stay patient. if you have a lot of weight to lose, keep in mind that you will not lose it over night. consistency and patience are key.more weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

july marks the halfway point in your year  do you know where your money stands?for most of us, the answer is a little more complicated than a simple \"yes\" or \"no.\" for example, maybe you know how much you have in our checking account (a great start!), but you dont know where your net worth stands (not so great). with the year more than half over, its definitely time to step back and take stock of what has happened over the past six months.how are those new years resolutions holding up? are you on track with the timelines of the personal goals you set for yourself? and perhaps the most logistically important of the bunch, how are you doing financially? are you working with your money the way you need to be this year, and is it working for you in return? if your answer to this is anywhere in the neighborhood of wow, i have no idea then youve come to the right place.it is so important to take some time mid-year to look back and assess whats been going on in your life, financially  both good and bad. to help you figure out exactly what you should be looking at during this mid-year financial check-up, nbc news better spoke with lauren zangardi haynes, a financial planning and investment advisory firm owner and financial blogger, about the most important steps you need to be taking during this time to make the most out of your mid-year review, and get yourself on track for the remainder of 2018.look over january through june at a glanceyou want to be able to look over the big picture of the last six months and get a feel for how things have been going, and how you can move forward.for mid-year check-ins, i suggest clients first revisit their goals  dare we say it, new years resolutions, says haynes. though we might feel silly making new years resolutions, often those are closely held goals and they are worth revisiting. if you havent achieved them, whats holding you back? time? focus? it may be time to hire someone to help you turn your plans into action and hold you accountable.it is common (and more than ok!) to not be exactly where you thought youd be when you set your financial intention for the year back in january  life happens, emergencies come up, and things get in the way. the important part is that youre assessing the missteps and adjusting your goals by creating an achievable, actionable plan to move forward in reaching them. be honest with yourself here about what is and isnt working, and what you need to do to improve starting now.haynes continues, some key things to consider: do you need to boost your savings? pay down debt? with those types of goals, time is literally money.when you start thinking about how much money the wasted time is costing you, youll be more likely to do what needs to be done  however difficult  to get back on track towards your goals.reassess (or create!) your budgetits also important to reassess your budget and see what is working (and perhaps more importantly, what isnt working). budgets only work if they actually apply to your current financial situation. so, if anything about your income or spending has changed over the last six months (and im willing to bet it has in one way or another), your budget needs to change to fit it.the health of your financial life is only as accurate as the budget youre living by day-to-day. if youre off track on your journey towards your financial goals so far this year, it isnt too late to steer yourself in the right direction. the first step might be as simple as opening up excel and starting a budget spreadsheet.still dont know where to start? youre not alone; as of 2016, only 41% of americans use a budget. if youre in the 59% that dont, consider adopting a simple system, like the 50/30/20 rule.assess your net worththis is a big one, and although it feels like it is reserved for people with tons of investments and much bigger money than you have, it still applies to you.net worth equals total assets minus liabilities, says haynes. in other words, what you own minus what you owe. be sure you are clear on what is actually an asset. things that lose money over time could be considered expenses, not assets. yes, im talking about that luxury car.you have to know where you stand before you figure out how to move forward. luckily, there are simple and accessible ways to check your net worth with little effort, like online calculators, to keep it easy enough to get done.check your credit report and create a plan of actionit may seem unnecessary to obsess over your credit score, especially because it can often fluctuate so much. but it is definitely important to check your actual credit report, and mid-year is the perfect time to do so. the formula used to calculate your credit score is a formula made up by credit agencies, haynes weighed in. what you really need to focus on is your actual credit report. you can check that for free once a year at annualcreditreport.com (beware of look-alike sites). look for anything amiss  late payments, fraudulent accounts or other mistakes. control what you can control, make sure your credit report is accurate, pay your bills on time, dont carry high levels of revolving debt.if your credit is lower than you like, it isnt the end of the world for you  there are ways to rehabilitate your credit and bounce back, even if youve made mistakes that feel irreparable. the key is starting sooner rather than later, so your mid-year financial check in is the perfect place to get started on this, especially if you want to start seeing results by next year.get more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 daysneed to save money fast? try a spending banwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

trader joes is a great place to shop for healthy convenience fare, but dont let the logo get the best of you. not every product is a nutritional winner. im not even talking about things like brownies, cakes and ice cream. you dont need to be a dietitian to know you arent hitting a nutritional home run with desserts.however, some everyday items that might seem like healthier options arent so good for you, either. here are some of the offenders that are best left on the shelf.greek low fat yogurt in almond butter coconutwith all the healthy buzz words (yogurt! almond butter! coconut!), you may be thinking, wait! what? heres the deal: all of those ingredients can make nutritious sense, but a peek at the label shows that the almond butter coconut base lists cane sugar as its first ingredient. that explains the two-plus teaspoons of added sugar this product provides. thats more than a third of the maximum amount women should be getting each day (men should cap added sugar intake at 9 teaspoons per day).my advice: pass on this product and instead, try some plain greek yogurt with a spoonful of almond butter sprinkled with unsweetened, toasted coconut. if you need a little sweetener, use a drizzle of honey or maple syrup. i bet you can get by with less than tjs adds to their version.very green 100% juice smoothiethis is so misleading! heres why: though the words very green are highlighted in big bold letters on the label, what really jumps out at me is the juice. apple juice is listed as the first ingredient and pineapple juice isnt far behind. and the bottle, which is sold with the single-serving drinks, contains two servings. heres what that looks like: 260 calories; 62 grams of carbohydrate, and 56 grams of sugar. this disastrous combo, which lacks protein and fiber, has an immediate and unhealthy impact on your blood-sugar levels. if you have trouble meeting your produce needs and want to sip some greens, find juices that are made with veggies and little, if any, fruit juice. better yet, blend your own greens with one serving of whole fruits into a smoothie and youll get the fiber (which gets extracted from juice) along with the array of vitamins, minerals, and protective phytochemicals.rainbow end trail mixthe trouble with this trail mix is that the first ingredient is candy, not nuts or dried fruit. this misses the mark. nuts have so much going for them: they promote feelings of fullness, thereby helping to reduce overeating, and they have a wide range of nutrients that promote health. plus, nuts provide prebiotic fiber, the kind that nourishes the healthy community of bacteria in your gut and provides fuel for a strong immune system.a healthier snack idea is to munch on nuts alone, or make your own trail mix, with a blend of mostly nuts, along with dried fruit and other add-ins, such as popcorn, toasted coconut, or whole grain, lower-sugar cereal. for chocolatey flavor, add cacao nibs, which are made from pure cocoa beans and are also sold at trader joes.fiberful granola barssure, these bars boast 9 grams of fiber, but not from a whole food source, like nuts or fruits. this overly processed bar is predominantly made with a manufactured form of fiber  oligofructose  that can trigger digestive discomfort, like gas and bloating. thanks, but no thanks! luckily, trader joes has healthy granola bars, like these peanuts go on a date bar, which have a very simple ingredient list.bettern peanut butterthis raises all sorts of questions starting with, whats better than peanut butter? peanut butter has more protein and fiber than any of the nut butters, and the type of fat in peanut butter is predominantly monounsaturated (also known as mufas)  the same type found in olive oil and avocados. this type of fat benefits your body in multiple ways, from lowering your risk of diabetes and heart disease to improvements in memory and thinking skills in older adults. one study found that mufas help optimize brain connections linked with higher intelligence and problem-solving skills. tell me why, exactly, we want to limit these fats, or worse, replace them with additives and sweeteners? pass on this product in favor of actual peanut butter, such as trader joes organic peanut butter made from valencia peanuts.gluten free &amp; dairy free homestyle pancakesconsumers looking for gluten-free fare often cite healthy living as a primary reason theyre looking for these types of foods. lets set the record straight right away: free-from labels (such as gluten free, dairy free and nut free) arent the best indicator of a products healthfulness. take these frozen pancakes from trader joes. the 3-pancake serving has 11 g of sugar (here we go again; thats almost 3 teaspoons  before you add the maple syrup), and absolutely no gluten-free whole grains, such as brown rice flour, oats or buckwheat flour  all perfectly great pancake ingredients. what youll find instead are refined carbohydrate flours (read: not healthy), including rice flour, tapioca flour and potato flour.veggie crispsdont be fooled by the word veggie on the label, or by the colorful chips peering out of the see-through package. these crisps are made with potato starch and potato flour, with a little tomato and spinach powder thrown in for coloring. sweet potato chips, also sold at tjs, are made from real sweet potatoes, which means they have a lot more nutrition than these veggie imitators.mediterranean hummus snack pack with pita chipsim all for hummus (as well as other chickpea-based fare) so i want to make sure its clear that hummus gets the thumbs up! the array of nutrients in hummus and other chickpea-based foods increase the nutritiousness of your diet and research shows that people who eat these foods have a lower risk of being overweight or obese. chickpeas also protect you from heart disease and diabetes, and keep your digestive system humming along. the catch here is the pita chips that go along for the ride. theyre made from wheat flour (code for white, refined flour) instead of a healthier whole grain, which means the pita chips lack the beneficial spectrum of nutrients that whole foods, including whole grains, provide.on top of that, the snack pack portion is quite hefty, and may be too much for your needs. one study found that foods labeled as snacks, like these are, can prime us to overeat later on, and coupled with the oversized portion, this may prompt you to go above and beyond your personal requirements. my advice is to buy the hummus separately, and dip away with pre-sliced veggies (such as carrots, cucumbers or red pepper slices). whole grain or bean-based chips would also be better choices.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forget7 food pairings that will increase nutrient absorptionthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

oh come on. i never said that.youre just being overly sensitive.i dont know why youre making such a big deal out of thispsychologists use the term gaslighting to refer to a specific type of manipulation where the manipulator is trying to get someone else (or a group of people) to question their own reality, memory or perceptions. and its always a serious problem, according to psychologists.it is always dangerous, robin stern, phd, associate director of the yale center for emotional intelligence and author of \"the gaslight effect,\" tells nbc news better. the danger of letting go of your reality is pretty extreme.it may start out with seemingly small offenses. but the problem is that even more-or-less insignificant instances of you questioning your own judgment or reality  thanks to the deliberate intent of someone else  can snowball. you can end up in a cycle of not being able to negotiate your daily life in a way where you are clear minded, can focus, can make sound decisions, and have a sense of well-being, stern says.gaslighting happens in personal relationships (think an abusive spouse or, in rarer cases, parent), in professional relationships (a manipulative boss or coworker preying on a subordinate), and even by public figures. there are several examples of gaslighting being done by president donald trump and his administration, stern notes.no matter whether its happening in a marriage, between a leader and his or her constituency or elsewhere, its important to be aware of the red flags that you (or someone you know) might be a victim  which is the first step to getting out of the abusive situation.gaslighting usually happens in a power dynamic, but its not always intentional or maliciousthere usually tends to be a power dynamic when gaslighting happens, stern explains. the manipulator holds enough power that the target of the gaslighting is terrified to change up [the relationship] or step out of the gaslighting dynamic because the threat of losing that relationship  or the threat of being seen as less than who you want to be seen as to them  is quite a threat, she saysif its happening by someone you love and care about (like a spouse or parent), youre going to want to believe the other person  and the gaslighter may use that against you, explains darlene lancer, jd, mft, a marriage and family practice therapist in private practice and author of \"codependency for dummies and conquering shame and codependency: 8 steps to freeing the true you.\"many people [in this case the targets of gaslighting] change their perceptions in order to avoid having a conflict, lancer explains.but, the gaslighter doesnt necessarily need to be acting with malicious intent  nor does the gaslighter necessarily need to realize that she or he is gaslighting another person for it to be happening, stern says.it might be a result of how you were raised. maybe your parents had very cut-and-dry beliefs and that certainty is how they (and now you) see the world and when someone sees things differently you assume something is wrong with them, stern says.maybe youre upset because you think your boyfriend is always flirting with other girls. what you dont see is that its the girls that are flirting with him and hes just being polite. but your worldview doesnt allow you to question that maybe youre getting the situation wrong. you make him think you know way more about relationships and theres something wrong with him that hes not able to see the error in his ways.maybe at first you dont believe it, but over time you may come think that maybe she is right, stern says.be wary of gaslighting if you start to question yourself a lotrecognizing that you or someone you care about might be in a gaslight tango is not always as straightforward as it might seem because it can start in very subtle ways  and often involves two people (or groups of people) who would otherwise seem to care about one another very much, stern says.the term gaslighting actually comes from a 1938 play, gas light (which was turned into a more widely known movie in 1944, gaslight), where a husband manipulates his wife to make her think shes actually losing her sense of reality so he can commit her to a mental institution and steal her inheritance. not all real-life examples are so diabolical, stern says.a subtler example might be a mother always disapproving of her daughters decisions to the extent that the daughter questions decisions she suspects her mother would not agree with. the mother may or may not consciously want to control her daughters every decision, but by being overly critical shes doing so.gaslighting can be when a popular high school student causes another student to question his or her feelings, or judgment of a situation. when that latter student asks the more popular student why the popular student didnt save a seat at the lunch table, the popular student deflects the question: why are you being so sensitive? its not that big of a deal. i didnt realize you didnt have a seat.how gaslighting happensaccording to the national domestic violence hotlines fact sheet, the techniques a gaslighter might use to manipulate someone else can include:withholding (meaning he or she refuses to listen or says they dont understand)countering (when the abuser questions the gaslightees memory of an event)blocking/diverting (when the abuser changes the subject or questions the victims thinking)trivializing (making the victims needs or feelings seem unimportant)forgetting/denial (when the manipulator pretends to have forgotten what actually happened or denies something he or she had previously agreed to)and note that a gaslighter will oftentimes start with something that is true that you might be particularly sensitive about to hook you. a coworker, for example, who tries to convince you that youre not pulling your weight in the office might bring up the fact that you complain all the time about menopause making you feel lousy. you may be feeling lousy because youre going through menopause (and that coworker may have heard you complaining about it once or twice), but that doesnt necessarily mean that your performance is changing because of it, stern explains.signs youre a victim of gaslightingaccording to stern, look for these warning signs and red flags the type of abuse might be happening to you (or someone you know):youre constantly second guessing yourself or have trouble making decisions;youre ruminating about a perceived character flaw (like being too sensitive or not a good enough person);you feel confused about your relationship (if you find yourself thinking: i thought i had this great husband, but i just feel crazy all the time or i thought i had this charming partner, but then sometimes i feel like im losing it when were together);in a confrontation with the person that might be gaslighting you, you feel like you suddenly find yourself in an argument you didnt intend to have, youre not making progress or youre saying the same thing over and over again and not being heard;you feel fuzzy or unclear about your thoughts, feelings, or beliefs;youre always apologizing;youre frequently making excuses for your partners behavior;you cant understand why youre not happy in your own life; oryou know something is wrong, but you just dont know what.what to do if someone is gaslighting youand finally, what do you do if you do recognize that someone is gaslighting you? heres what stern suggests:identify the problem. recognizing the problem is the first step, stern says. once something has a name you can being to address it specifically and granularly, she says. (sometimes writing down specifics from a conversation that you can look back to later  when youre out of the heat of the moment  can be helpful in sorting out the truth from distortion, stern suggests.)give yourself permission to feel what you feel. part of the problem with gaslighting is that it results in the victim questioning his or her own thoughts, values, perceptions or feelings. acknowledge that what you feel is what you feel so that you can take whatever action you need to take to feel better.give yourself permission to make a sacrifice. part of what makes it tough for a victim to leave a gaslight tango is that the abuser is someone they care about, they look up to, or they have a relationship with. you may have a lot of wonderful things going on in that relationship, stern says  but its not worth it if its undermining your reality. and to start to regain your sense of self that youve lost, you may need to cut that person off, give up some of those wonderful things, or live with that person not having such a high opinion of you, she says.start with making small decisions. to get out of or to stop a gaslight, take one step at a time, stern says. say no. dont engage in an argument thats clearly a power struggle.get a second opinion. ask a friend or family member you trust if they think your thinking is as off as your potential abuser says it is.have compassion for you. having compassion for yourself is super important, stern says. youre responsible to you. you need to be honest with yourself, stern notes. maybe tomorrow your partner will be great, but focus on what youre feeling in the moment, she says. recognize when you have those feelings: right now this feels like sh-t. hes driving me crazy.more mental health helphow to get mental health treatment if you cant afford it7 steps for getting through a panic attackhow to worry betterwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

theres nothing like biting into a perfectly ripe peach, tossing back a handful of sweet blueberries or snacking on refreshing watermelon. but seasonal summer produce offers so much more than great taste and nostalgia  many contain nutrients that may give your fitness routine a boost.from replenishing electrolytes and increasing blood flow to reducing muscle soreness and speeding recovery, these eight workout-boosting summer superfoods will have you running (literally) to the farmers market stat.cherriesthis ruby red stone fruit actually comes in several varieties. the vibrant dark red cherries found at most stores are bing cherries, which are revered for their antioxidant properties. research has found that eating bing cherries may reduce the prevalence of inflammatory diseases, like type 2 diabetes, heart disease and cancer.however, its the tart cherry variety that is considered a true superfood for active individuals. mainly, tart cherries and their juice have been shown to reduce oxidative damage from strength training and attenuate muscle soreness. the only drawback is that fresh tart cherries are hard to come by unless you live in a region that grows them. but dried and frozen tart cherries are available year-round. add any type of cherry to your pre-workout breakfast with this recipe for cherry chocolate overnight oats.watermelontrue to its name, watermelon consists of 92 percent water, making it a hydrating snack for the hot summer months. if you exercise outdoors, eating some juicy watermelon before or after your workout will aid in hydration and help provide energy. it also contains potassium, an important electrolyte lost in sweat. whats more, watermelon has an amino acid called l-citrulline, which may diminish muscle soreness after intense exercise. so go ahead and add this sparkling watermelon lime slushie to your workout-fueling routine.bell peppersa little known fact about everyones favorite fajita ingredient is that bell peppers are an excellent source of vitamin c. a red bell pepper contains more than twice as much vitamin c as an orange, says angie asche, ms, rd of eleat sports nutrition. she adds that this essential vitamin is an antioxidant that also plays a huge role in the production of collagen, the most abundant protein in our body. and thats good news for athletes because early research suggests that collagen may ease joint pain. invite your workout buddies over for taco night or opt for these vegan southwestern bowls.kiwiyoull be hard-pressed to find more nutrition in a smaller or fuzzier package than the under-appreciated kiwi. this tropical fruit contains two important electrolytes, potassium and magnesium, plus antioxidants that prevent inflammation and actinidin, an enzyme that helps with protein digestion. if youre intimidated by peeling a kiwi, dont be. cut it in half and scoop the flesh out of the skin with a spoon, or make these toasted coconut kiwi cups for a fancier snack.blueberriesthe tiny blue berry packs an antioxidant punch, according to asche. athletes who consume berries prior to and after prolonged exercise experience less inflammation and oxidative stress, she says. as a matter of fact, one study found that drinking a blueberry smoothie before and after the development of exercise-induced muscle damage helped athletes recover their strength more quickly. in other words, blueberries may help ease muscle soreness. blueberries make a great topper on toast or oatmeal, or whip up this 3-ingredient blueberry chia jam.beetsanother purple item to add to your shopping list is the durable beet. even though beets can be harvested for a fairly long growing season, they tend to peak in summer and fall, says chrissy carroll, mph, rd and usat level i triathlon coach. this is one superfood that should be in any athletes diet, thanks to their dietary nitrates, a component that increases blood and oxygen flow to the muscles, carroll adds. theres no denying the benefits of beets and their juice, and ample research has linked consumption of beetroot juice prior to exercise to increased performance, says asche. no one wants to roast beets in the dead of summer, so add raw sliced beets to your salad or try this unique beet lemonade.cucumbersas every athlete knows (and dietitians cant emphasize enough), hydration is crucial to athletic performance. drinking water is vital, but mixing in foods with a high water content also helps with hydration, says carroll. she recommends adding cucumbers to your fueling routine, since they are comprised of 96 percent water. snack on cukes with some tzatziki or hummus, or whip up this gorgeous spiralized cucumber apple salad.peachesthis sweet georgia fruit is packed with potassium, a mineral that helps maintain fluid balance within the body. those who exercise for longer than an hour or in intensely hot conditions lose potassium in sweat and need to replace it for proper hydration. snacking on a peach thirty minutes before a workout will offer quick acting fuel, or add them to your lunch with this peach panzanella salad.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its christmas in july, or so it feels like with amazons annual prime day arriving monday the 16th at 3 p.m est (though were seeing countdown deals trickle in). the sales bonanza, set to span 36 hours this year (longer than ever before), is open only to prime members (including those doing a free trial). historically, the self-made holiday has featured a wide array of savings on items in electronics, entertainment and tech with the savings spotlight shining especially bright on amazon-branded products like echo and alexa. this year should bring the same  and more.part of the magic of the day is the secrecy leading up to it. amazon keeps a tight lid on the details, leaving predictions to the retail experts while it drums up the hype (like by delivering huge smile boxes in select big cities) and promises more than a million deals worldwide. its a lot of fun if you like surprises, but its also somewhat stressful if youre trying to stick to a budget or if youre planning the purchase of a big-ticket item that may or may not make prime days cut.heres a look at how to navigate the chaos to land the hottest deals and maximize your savings.make a wish list before you start browsingits tempting to buy something you dont necessarily want when you know youre getting substantial savings  and amazon knows it.amazon has been designed to pull you into hours of clicking around and anticipating what you want based on your search history, says kevin kelly, president of bigbuzz marketing group. for big and small items alike, its best to prepare a list to avoid getting derailed by impulse purchases.you can add these items to your own amazon wish list. amazon will notify you if any of the items youre coveting become prime day deals, says sara skirboll, shopping and trends expert at retailmenot.the usual electronics will be there but so will fashion and foodthough wont know all the deals available until prime day, we can make some safe bets on whats to come.\"similar to previous years, noteworthy discounts are available on amazon products such as kindles and echo devices, says chelsea hudson, online shopping and deal expert at topcashback.com (right now, the site offers a $15 amazon gift card for new members). shoppers can also find discounts on modern electronics such as smart home devices, tvs, video games, consoles and more.cooper smith, head of amazon research at gartner l2 predicts that consumers will see a much broader range of discounting across categories including fashion and groceries. he explains: fashion because the majority of amazons new private label brands since last years prime day are apparel brands. groceries because amazon wants to accelerate whole foods customer acquisition and start conditioning prime members to do their grocery shopping with them.whole foods has already unveiled a prime special: a $10 amazon credit to use during the 36-hour sale when they spend $10 or more at whole foods between july 11 through 17.the lightning deals should strike hourlydont overlook amazons lightning deals, says hudson. in the past, select items receive a dramatic price drop for a very short period of time, so keep your eyes peeled for those. every hour youll notice another gadget is on sale, from a bluetooth speaker to a brita pitcher or pressure cooker.\"remember that you have a short window of time to act on these.once you put a lightning deal in your cart, you only have about 15 minutes to transact,\" says skirboll.dont get your hopes up on these non-amazon-branded tech and kitchen itemsso, what can you skip? krista fabregas, retail and shopping analyst at fit small business, notes that shoppers shouldnt get their savings hopes up on these items on prime day:apple devices. find better deals designed to lure amazon shoppers away on competing sites and stores like best buy and walmart.google devices. amazon is not interested in pushing competing google home devices. head to rival walmart for savings on these items.cameras. better deals can be found elsewhere, like walmart, target, best buy, ebay, newegg, and even specialty stores like b&amp;h.kitchen appliances. dont be tempted by sales on kitchen appliances since amazon will release similar or better deals during black friday and cyber monday, adds topcashbacks hudson.is this the brand you want? if not, dont settle unless its urgentlast year, my fianc and i went all out on black friday and bought a new tv for some 30 percent off the list price. it was not the brand wed been hoping would see major discounts, and was smaller than we liked. but we caved in our fervor to get in on the savings action. the following march, in time for the super bowl, the tv we originally wanted went on sale for less than what wed paid for the subpar model. consider this a lesson in waiting/saving for the thing you really want rather than settling on something close enough.sometimes urgency is more important than getting the exact model you had in mind, but if you have your heart set on a certain brand or model, you may not see it on sale, says kelly. decide if the purchase is urgent: do you need that bed or washer/dryer immediately? if not, consider skipping it. labor day sales are right around the corner, and before you know it cyber monday will be here.comparison-shopping is a mustmany retailers competing with amazon will be seizing this opportunity to flash bigger and better sales.last year, 20 percent of products discounted by amazon during prime day were available from other retailers for less, says jared blank, svp of marketing and data insights at the retail marketing company bluecore.check out retailers like lowes, macys and sony and any others that have announced their own black friday in july sales, says sara spivey, cmo of digital marketing company bazaarvoice, noting that the majority of prime day shoppers did this in 2017.last year we found that 76 percent of prime day shoppers visit other major online stores to research products and read ratings and reviews before making their ultimate purchase decisions, and many admitted to frequenting places like walmart, target, best buy and home depot to research and compare products, says spivey. by offering up sales and promotions of their own, these rival retailers have an opportunity to drive more revenue too. our research showed that not only did site traffic increase on prime day, but the number of orders also increased by 38 percent.heres a list of sites offering specials this july, courtesy of retailmenot.quick tips to maximize your savingsyou can save even more on prime day by doing the following:get the amazon prime rewards credit card, which will get you a $70 gift card and five percent back on all amazon purchases, says skirboll.sign up with a cashback site. (hudson says that topcashback is offering eight percent cashback on amazon devices). also check out ebates, honey, wikibuy and retailmenotgenie, and remember to use these when comparison shopping, too.use an amazon price tracker. prices can change so quickly you have to use an hourly amazon price tracker that can pick up on short-lived deals (think lightning deals) and notify you before the price pops back up, says david mercer, founder of sme pals. a good place to start using price histories is this lowest price deals page that shows only products selling at their historical lowest price (over the last month) right now. you have a few options for price trackers including camelcamelcamel, keepa and the tracktor.chat up alexa. ask alexa whats on sale, says hudson. last year amazon had alexa-only deals on consumer packaged good such as cleaning products and toilet paper. prime day is the perfect time to stock up on household goods for cheap.amazon deals you can snag right nowready to shop right now? check out these early deals.nbc news has affiliate relationships, so we may get a small share of the revenue from your purchases. items are sold by the retailer, not by nbc news. all prices are subject to change and items could sell out based on the merchants inventory.50 percent off echo show, $129 (originally $229)45 percent off kasa smart wifi light switch, $27 (originally $51)30 percent off 2-pack of solimo sport sunscreen, $9.09 (originally $12.99)51 percent off pinzon shed-resistant white duck down pillow, $24.27 (originally $49.99)29 percent off pinzon 400-thread-count egyptian cotton queen sheet set, $34.13 (originally $47.99)26 percent off amazon basics wireless bluetooth speaker, $14.59 (originally $19.78)20 percent off amazon basics paper and credit card shredder, $23.74 (originally $29.99)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

are you headed out on summer vacation soon and have your eye on a great airbnb? maybe youre convinced that staying in someones home is the best way to experience an off the beaten track neighborhood, or to get to know a city beyond its top 10 lists. pick a place thats right for you, and it can be the difference in just a fun summer getaway  and a really memorable trip. a good host can steer you to their under-the-radar favorites, gems not on the tourist trail. my host in paris once sent me across the city for what she promised was the best eclair, even though there were plenty available right around the corner. she was so right and i still think about that perfect pastry.but booking into an airbnb or other short term rental isnt quite like staying at a hotel  the popular instant book option (where you can reserve without having to ask first) notwithstanding.while there are a number of listings run as investment properties, complete with a property manager and call center if you call for help, plenty are still the original airbnb idea  a room in someones home, or their house that they vacate for you. think of yourself as more of a house guest than a hotel customer at these places and you may see that some questions or behaviors that are par for the course at hotels are downright deal-breakers at an airbnb.and dont forget one other big difference. trash that hotel room and the worst that can happen is the hotel charges you. be a bad guest in someones home, a place they love and care for, and you may be saddled with a bad review that could make that your last airbnb. thats right: reviews are a two way street.how do you know what pitfalls to avoid if you want to get the good reviews that mean youll be welcome at any hosts place? reading and following house rules, respecting the property and the community and generally behaving like a responsible adult are a given. but if youve never been a host yourself there are probably some pain points we hosts contend with that you wouldnt be expected to know about.as one of airbnbs longest tenured superhosts im here to let you in on a few things many of us wish you knew. follow these seven tips and youll stand out as an all-star guest wed fight to have.use a real photoyou may think its cute to have your kitten as your profile photo (and its probably a very cute kitten!), but its a scary prospect letting strangers sleep under our roof. we want to know that you are who you say you are. help your host feel at ease by verifying your identity in as many ways as the platform allows  and make your profile photo one that will help them recognize you when you arrive.send us a complete messagewe get it, youre busy. you have a zillion other things to do besides book an airbnb. but if your booking message is just a few terse words, say coming to town for work, that can activate our spidey senses. think of the things we have to be concerned about: are you a professional party host (thats a real thing) here to trash the place? thats pretty much a worst case scenario and highly unlikely, but even with a legit guest theres always the worry that they might damage the property. we have to infer how youll treat our (probably very substantial) investment  our home  based on very few factors.if you can include a polite greeting and a line or two about what brings you to town and/or why you chose this place, it helps hosts feel more like youre a trustworthy human being they can give the keys to their house to. besides, remember the spirit of homesharing is travelers and locals getting to know one another so why not start off with a nice introduction?dont ask for a break on the ratenothing sets off red flags like a guest asking for a discount. bargain hunters are notorious among hosts for other bad behavior like not respecting house rules; demanding exceptions to other things like check-in and out times; and being dissatisfied no matter what. the price the host sets is the price they need to make this worth their while, and the price the market will bear. if your budget isnt that high, look for a lower-priced alternative. or check less popular dates or try plugging a longer stay in  often those will trigger lower prices.its hard for us to judge what you deem saferemember this isnt a corporate hotel with a staff. unless youre dealing with an investment property run by a property manager, chances are youre talking to the homeowner themselves. it could be seen as rude to insinuate the neighborhood they choose to call home may not be good enough for you. besides, how do they know what your personal threshold or definition of safety is?this ones on you to do your homework. the listing will show the general neighborhood and there should be exterior photos of the property. be honest with yourself about where youd be comfortable, then do your googling, check out street view and read the past reviews. ask away if you have questions not answered in the listing that will help you feel more at ease. but send concrete questions that address specific concerns, such as are there working street lights? or do you have security cameras? or am i likely to be approached by people asking for money? if these are things you worry about.do tell us how we can help!many of us got into hosting because we have a passion for hospitality. and who knows the neighborhood and destination better than a real, live local? if youre looking for a certain kind of restaurant or attraction  tell us! i for one love to help travelers discover the corners of my town they may not know about. as a guest myself ive benefited from wonderful hosts in other cities giving me their inside tips.and if you are lacking something in the airbnb itself, let us know! i dont know any hosts who would want you to suffer in silence. need a fan? wish you had one more towel? just say the word. that doesnt mean we can always fulfill your request but i know an awful lot of hosts who will go to great lengths to make sure guests are happy and have what they need (i helped some of my recent guests elope, but if they hadnt asked me for some suggestions id never have known i had the opportunity).looker not a booker? please know thistheres warning on my airbnb dashboard telling me i need to get my acceptance rating up or risk suspension of my account. (as they should) the company takes discrimination seriously. and they dont want guests to be disappointed by a rejection from a host, so they require that we accept a high percentage of requests.if you have a party of eight with one traveling chinchilla and you love that listing that sleeps just four and allows no pets, you may be tempted to try to book it anyway. when the host (quite reasonably) turns you down, thats a strike against them. i rent my whole house listing so infrequently that thanks to someone trying to book it as an event venue, and a pricing glitch that made my listing show up for a fraction of the actual cost  both requests that i rejected  im now on thin ice.please do be a nice person and take a look at the listings rules and requirements and be sure its a match before you send off that request.dont forget to leave a reviewyour stays not over when you check out. not only do your fellow travelers count on your honest review, your host needs a certain percentage of guests to leave a review in order to meet airbnb standards. sure, once youve moved on its the last thing on your mind, but take five minutes to leave a review with specifics on what you liked about your stay and heads up for other guests. (im always glad when my reviews mention the vertiginous stairs at our third floor flat; theyre no joke and i want any potential guests to know just what theyre in for!)and if you saw room for improvement  and the host clearly cared about offering a great place to stay  send them a private note with your suggestions. bingo: good travel karma! plus, if you look like a nitpicking complainer in your reviews, future hosts may not be so keen on taking your booking.more ways to travel better5 scientifically proven health benefits of traveling abroadsave $520 (or more) on your next flight with these 4 airfare hackshow to keep your pet safe on a flighthow to burn hundreds of calories during your layoverwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

cookbook author and healthy eating advocate mark bittmans credo is pretty simple: \"eat no junk at all, if you can. eat more plants, and when i say \"plants,\" i dont mean distillations of plants. i mean things that dont have labels, like fruits and vegetables and nuts and seeds. and eat way fewer animal products. that is the formula.\"it sounds about right, except when youre ready to fire up the grill. then it gets infinitely harder considering that meat is often the star of most american cookouts. enter bittmans latest cookbook \"how to grill everything,\" which at first glance doesnt seem to be particularly heavy on the aforementioned fruits, vegetables and seeds. but bittman disagrees saying that, yes, \"its got plenty of meat and it certainly has the basics of meat, chicken and fish, but there are there are a lot of interesting vegetable and even fruit recipes in there. and those are the ones im proudest of.\"here, bittman shares four recipes (with several variations) you can fire up on the grill that go beyond the usual burgers and dogs. from grilled bok choy to bean-based vegetable burgers to an italian bread salad, the only thing on this menu that isnt vegan is grilled fish. consider this permission to push yourself out of your meat-centric comfort zone tonight.the mains: chana chaat burgers and fish fillets with avocado-cilantro salsachana chaat burgersmakes: 4 to 8 servingstime: 40 to 45 minutes, plus chilling timei love the flavors in aloo chana chaat, the saucy indian appetizer of potatoes and chickpeas, and they happen to make a wonderful burger, too. no need for a bun; serve these with your favorite chutney. these can be a bit crumbly, so if you have a perforated grill pan, use it. otherwise, just handle them gently. look for chaat masala in indian markets; its somewhat tangy taste is distinctive. if you can only find garam masala, go for it; youll still be happy.3 cups cooked chickpeas, drained1 cups mashed potatoes1 cup minced onion cup chopped fresh cilantro2 teaspoons chaat masala2 teaspoons grated lime zest1 teaspoon ground cuminsalt and pepperput the chickpeas and potatoes in a large bowl and mash with a potato masher or fork until they come together. add the onion, cilantro, chaat masala, lime zest, and cumin; work them in by mashing with a wooden spoon or the back of a fork. taste and add some salt and pepper if needed. with wet hands, shape the mixture into 8 burgers. put them on a platter without touching, and refrigerate for at least 1 hour. (you can make the burgers up to a day or so in advance. cover tightly and refrigerate.)start the coals or heat a gas grill for medium direct cooking. make sure the grates are clean.put the burgers on the grill directly over the fire. close the lid and cook, turning once, until they develop a crust and release easily from the grates, about 8 minutes per side. transfer to a platter and serve.cheesy chana chaatsweet potato burgersthe addition of the cheese is unconventional but deliciously gooey, and sweet potatoes partner beautifully with the chickpeas: substitute mashed sweet potatoes for the regular potatoes and add  cup shredded mozzarella.smoky black beansweet potato burgerssubstitute black beans for the chickpeas and mashed sweet potatoes for the regular potatoes. replace the chaat masala with 1 teaspoon smoked paprika (pimentn).falafel burgersuse either chickpeas or cooked peeled fava beans. substitute parsley for the cilantro. replace the chaat masala and lime zest with 2 tablespoons minced garlic, 1 teaspoon ground coriander, and  teaspoon cayenne, or to taste.fish fillets with avocado-cilantro salsafish fillets with avocado-cilantro salsamakes: 4 servingstime: 20 to 25 minutesgrilled fish and fresh salsa is one of my favorite combinations. the salsas here and in the variations are slightly offbeat, with vibrant flavors and textures that perfectly complement the mild sweetness of the fish. when fillets still have their skin on  the thin kind thats edible  all the better. the fire will crunch it up for even more contrast. bass and salmon are both great choices to try. these salsas also pair great with seared sea scallops.2 ripe avocados, pitted, peeled, and diced cup chopped fresh cilantro cup chopped red onionjuice of 1 lime, or more to tastesalt and pepper1 pounds fish fillets (preferably skin-on)good-quality olive oil for brushing the fishstart the coals or heat a gas grill for hot direct cooking. make sure the grates are clean.put the avocados, cilantro, onion, and lime juice in a small bowl, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and gently toss to combine (take care not to mash the avocado). taste and adjust the seasoning.pat the fillets dry with paper towels, then brush them with oil and season with salt and pepper on both sides.put the fish on the grill (skin side down, if it has skin), perpendicular to the grate. close the lid and cook until the bottoms brown and release easily, 3 to 7 minutes. carefully turn the fillets over, using a second spatula to keep them from breaking apart. close the lid and cook until a skewer or thin knife inserted at the thickest point of a fillet easily pierces it all the way through, 2 to 4 minutes, depending on the fish and the thickness. transfer the fish to a platter, top with the salsa, and serve.fish fillets with mango-mint salsaso incredibly refreshing and still rich: substitute mint for the cilantro and 1 large or 2 medium-sized ripe mangoes for the avocados. peel, cut the flesh off the pit, and dice.fish fillets with papaya-cilantro salsasubstitute 1 firm but ripe 12-to 16-ounce papaya for the avocados. peel and seed before dicing.fish fillets with avocado-tomato salsasubstitute basil for the cilantro and 1 fresh medium tomato for one of the avocados. seed the tomato if you like; chop.the sides: baby bok choy and panzanellababy bok choy with lime-miso vinaigrettemakes: 4 servingstime: 30 to 35 minutesthese bright green heads are a fraction of the heft of full-grown bok choy and have a mellower, sweeter taste. the resulting side dish is lovely with salmon or other full-flavored fatty fish. the size of baby bok choy can vary significantly. to ensure theyre all the same size, leave the smallest whole, quarter the largest lengthwise, and halve the ones in between. you can cut the bok choy and make the vinaigrette several hours ahead; refrigerate until youre ready to grill. cup good-quality vegetable oilgrated zest of 1 lime2 tablespoons fresh lime juice2 tablespoons white or light miso1 tablespoon rice vinegarsalt and pepper1 pounds baby bok choystart the coals or heat a gas grill for medium direct cooking. make sure the grates are clean.whisk the oil, lime zest and juice, miso, and vinegar together in a small bowl until combined and thickened. taste and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper.trim the bottoms from the bok choy and cut into halves or quarters as needed. pour half the vinaigrette into a large baking dish. add the bok choy and turn in the vinaigrette until completely coated.put the bok choy on the grill directly over the fire. close the lid and cook, turning once, until the leaves brown and you can insert a knife through the core with no resistance, 5 to 10 minutes per side, depending on their size. transfer to a platter, drizzle with the reserved vinaigrette, and serve warm or at room temperature.baby bok choy with sesame-miso vinaigretteomit the lime zest and add 1 teaspoon each sesame oil and red chile flakes.baby bok choy with coconut-chile sauceomit the vinaigrette. seed and chop 1 or more small red chiles (like thai); whisk it together with  cup coconut milk, 1 tablespoon each rice vinegar and fish sauce, the grated zest of 1 lime, and some salt and pepper. use as directed for the vinaigrette.ginger-garlic baby bok choy with black vinegarsweet and smoky, chinese black vinegar is available at most asian markets; if you cant find it, balsamic vinegar approximates its flavor though it wont be the same: for the vinaigrette, whisk together  cup good-quality vegetable oil, 3 tablespoons black vinegar, 1 tablespoon each minced fresh ginger and garlic, and 1 teaspoon soy sauce.panzanellamakes: 4 to 6 servingstime: 45 to 60 minuteswith grilled bread, this salad is the perfect vine-ripened tomato delivery system. the fruits juices will soak into the bread, making for a delicious jumble of tastes, fragrance, and textures. have all the ingredients prepped, then grill the bread before your main course  and the salad will be ready to go when you are.about 8 ounces baguette, ciabatta, or other crusty bread (preferably a little dry) cup good-quality olive oil2 tablespoons red wine vinegar or fresh lemon juice2 large fresh tomatoes, cut into bite-sized pieces1 small red onion, halved lengthwise and thinly sliced into half moons1 clove garlic, minced or pressedabout  cup roughly chopped fresh basil or parsleysalt and pepperstart the coals or heat a gas grill for medium-high direct cooking. make sure the grates are clean.cut the bread into 1-inch-thick slices. put the oil, vinegar, tomatoes, onion, garlic, and basil in a large salad bowl. sprinkle with salt and lots of pepper and toss to coat the vegetables.put the bread on the grill directly over the fire. close the lid and cook, turning once, until well toasted, 2 to 3 minutes per side; its fine if it gets a little charred in places. transfer the bread to a cutting board. as soon as it cools enough to handle, cut the slices into bite-sized pieces. add to the bowl and toss until everything is well combined. let sit until you are ready to eat, at least 10 minutes; you want to give the bread time to absorb the dressing and tomato juices.caprese panzanellamore of a main dish, especially over a bed of salad greens: when you add the bread to the salad, add 8 ounces bocconcini (small mozzarella balls); if you like, halve or quarter them first.panzanella with kalethe stems here add intermittent crunch: use 2 tablespoons each red wine vinegar and fresh lemon juice (instead of only vinegar). when you toss the salad, add 8 ounces kale (stems and all), finely chopped.fattoushthe lebanese take on bread salad, loaded with fresh herb flavor: substitute four 6-inch pitas for the bread and grill as directed; cut each into 8 wedges. in a large salad bowl, whisk together 6 tablespoons good-quality olive oil and 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice with some salt and pepper. add  cup chopped fresh mint or basil,  cup chopped fresh parsley, 1 large fresh tomato, chopped, 1 cucumber, peeled and chopped, and 1 red or yellow bell pepper, chopped. toss to combine and coat with the dressing, then add the pita.want to eat better? try these simple swapshow to make healthy food taste delicious, according to a celebrity chef8 small diet swaps that add up to huge health payoffsresearch says this one trick will help you eat more veggies5 foolproof principles for cleaning up your dietwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

ive been a devoted of fan of cookbook author, speaker and food activist mark bittman for decades. i eagerly awaited his columns and op-eds in the \"new york times,\" armchair-traveled with him on his epic pbs road trip across spain and religiously planned my meals from his how to cook everything cookbook series as a fledgling home cook. and although his recipes and culinary adventures expanded my palate and improved my cooking skills, his 2009 book \"food matters\" changed the way i think about eating.back in my high school and college days, being a vegetarian gave me some cred as a card-carrying member of peta, but didnt do a whole lot for my overall health. plant-based pickings were slim and dinners out at my favorite budget-friendly haunts quickly led to consolation orders of french fries, pasta, grilled cheese ... and more fries. the \"veg\" part of vegetarian was notably missing and i gained weight.so i went back to my meat-eating ways  joining the low-carb, high protein revolution as a way to shed the pounds and it worked. although maintaining my weight was easier, i still had that nagging feeling (lets call it guilt) that all of the meat, cheese and eggs i was eating couldnt be good for me  least of all for the animals who made the earthly sacrifice to fuel my low-carb lifestyle. which was precisely bittmans simple, but important point in \"food matters\": the way we eat isnt good for us, the animals were rely on or the environment we live in. in fact, the way we eat is unsustainable.bittmans \"vegan before 6:00\" philosophy was just the answer i was looking for. all day, id follow a vegan diet (focusing on real food, mostly fruits and vegetables) and then relax things a bit later on at night. so, if i wanted a piece of salmon, a little piece of baguette and a glass of wine, that was okay. after three months, i was eating more fruits and vegetables than ever before and had lost 20 pounds in the process.the benefits of being a part-time veganbittman was following the science, of course. studies show that eating a vegan diet, chock-full of antioxidant- and fiber-rich foods, like fruits, vegetables, whole grains and legumes, may reduce your risk of cancer. and adopting a plant-based diet can lead to improvements in blood pressure, reductions in heart disease, and a lower risk of developing type 2 diabetes.so much as changed since my vegetarian days back in the 1990s and eating a plant-based diet is easier than ever. but you dont have to fully embrace a vegan lifestyle to reap some of these benefits  just eating fewer animal products and boosting the number of plant-based foods you eat every day can lead to many of these positive health improvements.i sat down with mark bittman to talk about vegan before 6:00, what science tells us about how we should be eating and why we just cant seem to believe what health experts keep telling us.this interview was edited and condensed for clarity.whats wrong with the way we eat?mb: one of the interesting things about the way we eat is that  to the extent that we eat badly  its bad for our personal health and its also bad for the environment. a happy coincidence is that to the extent that we eat well, its also good for the environment.what we mean, generally, by \"eating well\" is eating real food. and real food  you know what real food is. we all know what real food is. its generally food that doesnt have labels. its generally food thats actually nourishing. its generally food that you recognize as food.the problem with the standard american diet is that we eat a lot of highly processed food. we eat way more saturated fats than we ought to, and we eat more sugar than we ought to. we also eat more industrially produced meat than we ought to. so, if we cut back on all of those things and focus on real food, our health gets better and were less likely to develop chronic diseases. but were also having a more positive impact on the environment so we lower our carbon footprint.right now, we seem to be obsessed with protein, most of which is animal-based.mb: you know, we may seem to be obsessed by eating too much protein in this country, but our obsessions go from one obsession followed by another. so now were obsessed with, \"do i get enough protein?,\" or, \"do i eat too much gluten?,\" and so on, when really the answer is as the best nutritionists and dietitians have been saying for 100 years. the answer is a balanced diet.a balanced diet means wide variety of foods, but real foods. again, not hyper-processed foods, but real foods. meat and dairy can be a part of that diet, but it should not be a part of that diet in the way that it is for most of us now, which is to say we eat a pound and a half or so of animal products every day on average, which is conservatively ten times as much as we need and ten times as much as is good for us.so, the overconsumption of animal products is bad for us. the overproduction of industrially raised animals  as in factory farms  weve all seen pictures of those, is not only bad for us, but terrible for the environment, for the people who live around those factory farms, for the animals, of course. so, the idea is really a balance of real foods, but a much stronger and much heavier emphasis on plants than really weve done in the united states for 100 years.why arent we happy with what the science tell us about healthy eating?mb: yeah, why do we ignore the science? many books have been written about this. we look for silver bullets. we expect magic to happen. we think that at some point, theres going to be a pill that makes our ills go away  theres going be a tech solution that makes climate change go away.and it doesnt always work that way. in fact, it usually doesnt work that way. so, when the science says, and the science does say a good diet is actually a very, very simple thing, people find that boring. everybody says, \"oh, its so confusing.\" well, the reason its confusing is because the industry wants you to be confused.so, if i say to you, \"eat lots of tomatoes,\" and then a study comes out and says, \"well, tomatoes are good because theres lycopene (ph) in it,\" then the industry wants to promote lycopene because it can take lycopene and put it in trix, and now tell you that trix are good for you because theres lycopene in them.but the fact is thats not how it works. what works is eating a wide variety of foods, as ive now said three times  most of them plants. and thats so simple that people think, \"well, it cant be like that. it has to be that some scientist invents something.\" thats not how things are going to get better.we crave rules  a way of thinking that makes it easier to shift to a healthier diet. vegan before 6:00 is a perfect example  how did you stumble upon your personal rule?mb: i was thinking about this for years  and not making that many changes in my own diet. i didnt eat much hyper-processed food, but i did eat a lot of animal products. and i thought, \"you know, if im going to walk the walk, i have to be eating a more plant-based diet.\"and i needed a rule. i recognized that i needed one and many of us do. its not enough to say, \"eat more plants,\" because then you wake up and you say, \"im going to eat more plants, but maybe not at breakfast.\" and then you say, \"maybe not at lunch, and maybe not at dinner, either.\" and days go by.so, i made this rule that i called \"vegan before 6:00,\" which is i eat as a very strict vegan all day long. that is, i eat very heavily from the plant kingdom and exclusively from the plant kingdom, and no white flour, no white pasta, no white rice. nothing white. no meat, no dairy, no junk.only plants until dinnertime, and then at dinner, i do whatever i want to do. it was just a thought. it was just like a little game i was going to play with myself, which was, \"lets see if i have the discipline to eat a strictly plant-based diet, all day long, and then at night ill let myself eat meat and doughnuts or whatever,\" which i dont, but it worked. i did it at first as a challenge and it was kind of fun. i did it, and all my blood numbers, my weight, my cholesterol, all of that stuff went in the right direction.so, i kept doing it, and it kind of became a way of life. but i want to emphasize that any strategy that enables you to eat more plant foods, more natural foods, more whole foods and less hyper-processed foods and fewer animal products, any strategy that works for you is the right strategy.how do we make sure everyone has access to healthy food?mb: some people dont get to eat enough, some eat too much of the wrong things and then theres the environmental problems. so, all of this is an educational issue, which is why im talking to you now. theres a notion that so-called \"healthy food\" is more expensive than junk food, and its really not true. and if you compare a dinner for a family of four at mcdonalds or burger king or any fast food joint you want to name,(and that is for the most part unhealthy food because no ones going there to order salads) to what it costs to cook a normal meal for a family of four ... and im not talking about organic and im not talking about going to a fancy supermarket ... were talking about buying regularly grown vegetables and fruits, a little bit of meat, beans and rice, whatever, that is less expensive. you know, your $20 goes a lot farther at a regular supermarket than it goes in a fast food joint.so, whats the bottom line?mb: the bottom line is the same as the first line. the bottom line is eat less hyper-processed food. eat no junk at all, if you can. eat more plants, and when i say \"plants,\" i dont mean distillations of plants. i mean things that dont have labels, like fruits and vegetables and nuts and seeds. and eat way fewer animal products. that is the formula. its pretty simple.what health experts want you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as if landing your first real job after college, or making a major career change isnt stressful enough, theres the onus of having to dress the part. i remember when i was interviewing for an editorial job at magazines straight out of university, i had one suitable outfit: a ralph lauren dress my godmother purchased for me after graduation, a hand-me-down blazer that frankly did not do me any favors and t-strap heels id owned since junior prom. i had always been into fashion  but to me that meant raggedy jeans, band t-shirts and flirty vintage dresses. entering a business environment meant id have to spend some dough on new attire.and spend i did, often on stuff i didnt truly like. while ive since managed to build a spiffy collection of office-friendly apparel, i wish id had a style guru or two to help me build a professional wardrobe without breaking the bank. i imagine many women today are in the same position i was, so i consulted a number of fashion connoisseurs and bargain shopping pros to make a list of essential pointers. since ive become something of an expert myself in recent years, i threw in some hard-earned tips of my own, too!1. borrow or trade clothesbefore you commit to purchasing anything, see what you can get away with borrowing. not only is this free (ideally), it will help you get a feel for what you like and give you time to scope out your new companys dress code.reach out to a few friends who are around your size and ask if you can borrow a pair of pants or a top for a couple of weeks, says kaarin vembar, co-host of the fashion podcast pop fashion. keep a list of what you are borrowing and whom it belongs to. do the neighborly thing and clean it before you give it back.you might also want to arrange a clothing swap with your friends.clothing swaps were huge in the mid-2000s, and im all for continuing on the tradition, says vembar. everyone brings a few pieces that they arent wearing anymore to a party and everyone swaps clothing. it can infuse new life into your wardrobe.2. take your timeone mistake i made was thinking that i needed a whole new wardrobe to make the transition from college kid life to working adult life. not only did i waste money with this approach, i got a lot of stuff i didnt need (or particularly want)  plus, i ended up with massive clutter since i didnt want to part with any of my non-work clothes.too often people feel like building a business wardrobe means they have to buy everything (an entire wardrobe) all at once, says patrice j. williams, style expert and writer. but when youre on a budget, that just isnt feasible; instead i suggest creating a list of essentials and prioritizing them based on your jobs daily functions. for example: if youre on your feet a lot at work, a pair of comfy sturdy patent pumps would be a priority. if you take a lot of meetings with clients on off-site locations, a structured bag would be a nice option. slowly building a wardrobe is a great way to go.3. create a capsule wardrobecreating a capsule wardrobe (aka, a collection of essential, timeless pieces) is not only useful if youre looking to downsize, its a great way to bring focus to your closet makeover.heres what holly quartaro, fashion stylist at galleria dallas recommends as your professional capsule wardrobe staples:black suit (can be worn as separates)white or cream blouseblack pumpslarge structured handbagthe idea is to get items that can be mixed and matched with existing pieces to create a wide variety of looks, as quartaro notes, so choose a neutral shade like beige, black or taupe.4. splurge on a classic piecesif you can manage to splurge, be discerning. rather than going for something super trendy and in-season, opt for a classic piece.good investment pieces are those that will stand the test of time, says maria duenas jacobs, a style expert at the online subscription and personal shopping service, stitch fix. stick to classic styles and silhouettes for splurge items. i recommend investing in big-ticket items like leather jackets, coats, blazers and a nice handbag. choose one item per season to splurge on and soon, youll have your go-to pieces.my first big splurge was a navy blue kate spade shopper and i still love it nearly a decade later. but you may want to focus your splurge shopping on items that you wear on the top of your body.two-thirds of the time people focus on the upper one-third of the body. spend your money on dress shirts, blouses, and/or jacket, advises jill swanson, author of simply stylish: look great, spend less!\"5. download these shopping apps for the bargain huntebay is my go-to app, but it can take time to ensure youre getting the product you want. make sure that the vendor offers returns, has a high rating (i say 98 percent or more) and preferably is in the u.s so you get your item quickly and can feasibly send back if needed.asos has flash sales galore and have a diverse collection for all body types. they also have a wide variety of shopper bags, which are sleek but big enough to accommodate a laptop, and approximately 800 other things.etsy is more of a boutique site/app, and hence pricier, but you can filter your search to be under $25, which has led me to great vintage finds.poshmark lets you search other peoples closets for name-brand goods theyre selling, and is also ideal if you want to sell some stuff yourself.thredup is similar to poshmark, functioning as the ultimate digital consignment store.6pm is powered by zappos and has an incredible collection of new designer items at rock-bottom prices.zulily has an array of deals on select brands on a daily basis. great for apparel, but also essentials like bedding and luggage. only downer is that stuff can take weeks to arrive.6. download these browser extensions for quick discountsebates is a cash-back website sporting the must-have browser extension the cash back button. ive received as much as 14 percent back on purchases via personalized check. this is my favorite of all the extensions.retailmenots site offers deal alerts and coupon codes galore, but also has a browser extension, retailmenot genie, which scouts out any discount codes and cash back offers at retail sites.wikibuy searches other sellers in real time to see if you can get a better detail on the same item elsewhere.honey applies eligible coupon codes at checkout.the camelizer by camelcamelcamel (for amazon) tracks the price history of amazon items so you can see how good the savings are.slice watch lets you track items you like and monitors prices to alert you when a product is on sale.gumdrop by goodshop finds deals/coupons and donates a portion of purchases to the shoppers charity or school of choice.note that not all of these extensions are compatible with all browsers and seldom work in tandem with another.7. check out these stores for staples and salesshopping in person is ideal if you want to try things on first. check out these bargain-friendly spots.uniqlo. i could write a book on how wonderful uniqlo is, which would include a chapter on my favorite fashion hack: these heattech scoop shirts. they last forever, dont fade in the wash, and despite the cozy name, the tanks and short-sleeved tees are very breathable and great in all weather. i love to dress these up with a pencil skirt and blazer.nordstrom racksaks off fifthh&amp;mzara (not as cheap as h&amp;m, but great for more formal wear, like suits)t.j. maxxmarshallscentury 21ross dress for less. if you dont find anything you like for work, then definitely hit up the fitness section. insane discounts on top brands.j. crew factory. this outlet touts a smaller collection than j.crew, but its the same brand at a much lower price.target. check out their jewelry section; you can find a lot of statement pieces for cheapkohls. sign up for kohls cash to get extra bang for your buckforever 21dsw. great for those neutral pumps that you can usually find on mega-sale.macys, j.c. penney and sears. amid store closures and the general struggle to stay relevant in increasingly digital world, you can find endless sales in their racks.8. these hacks can convert casual clothing into businessyou dont need to buy something professional to pull off a business look.to convert casual clothing into business, try pressing a center crease down the leg of your casual pants (or jeans), tuck in a shirt/blouse, add some jewelry, classy loafers or heels and you are good to go, says swanson. a plain shapeless dress can be transformed into work attire by adding a wide belt to anchor the look and topping it off with some great earrings and a pair of pumps. sweaters and shirts with a low neckline can be worn backwards and be made work-appropriate by finishing it off with the right accessories. ive also layered a simple black a-line skirt under a casual tunic top to lengthen it into a dress.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if you are struggling to save money and pay off debt, the 50-20-30 rule can help you budget in accordance with your financial goals, according to rob berger, founder of the dough roller. he says the simple rule provides flexibility, whether you want to pay off debt, save, invest or all three.the rule splits your after-tax, take-home pay into three buckets.fifty percent is for needs, thirty percent is for wants, twenty percent is for savings, berger tells nbc news better.heres the breakdown.50 percent: includes rent/mortgage, food, bills, minimum debt payments and other essentials20 percent: includes financial goals such as savings, investment, etc30 percent: dining, entertainment, etcfigure out how much you can realistically savebefore you begin, youll need to determine out how much you can realistically save, says berger.for example, someone with high expenses and high debt may need to adjust the rule to 80-10-10 until they have reduced their debt and grown their savings.but before you assume you cant afford to save 20 percent, berger advises, take the time to examine your spending habits.rather than immediately say, oh, this wont work, i cant save 20 percent  which i understand, ive been there, most people have been there  spend some time thinking well, wait a minute, if i had to make this work, what choices could i make to make it work? think through all the things you absolutely must have, advises berger.you got to focus on what you absolutely have to have, and that means really shrinking that 30 percent bucket  getting rid of everything you dont have to have, says berger. which is not always easy and not always fun, but if you find yourself in a difficult financial situation, youve got to make those tough decisions.what can you cut out?you might be overspending money in ways you dont realize, says berger. first, look at your major expenses  rent, mortgage, car payments, etc.  and ask yourself if there are ways to reduce them, he says. you might be able to save by moving to a cheaper city, for instance, or by purchasing a used car instead of a new one, he says.if its not possible to cut back on major expenses, then you need to take a look at your smaller expenses, says berger.go through the list of expenses in your 50 percent bucket and ask yourself: do i need this? can i get rid of it, or can i somehow lower it?if you havent checked car insurance rates in three years [for example] maybe you should shop around for better car insurance, says berger.youll also need to examine the expenses in your 30 percent bucket to see what you tend to waste money on the most, he says. for some people, that may be clothes, for others, electronics or eating out. berger suggest creating a mini-budget that will prevent you from overspending on your lifestyle habits. for instance, if you tend to splurge on dining out, create a dining budget that aligns with your savings goals.so you dont have to track every dime if you dont want to, just pick those one or two or three categories that cause you the most problems and set a budget that you dont surpass for those categories, says berger.he says there are plenty of online tools like ynab that can help you manage your spending.figure out your savings goalshow you manage your 20 percent savings bucket will depend on your personal goals, says berger.if you dont already have much saved, he suggests using it to build an emergency savings fund. once youve got an amount you feel comfortable with, he says, you can start contributing part of your savings to an investment like an ira or a mutual fund.if your goal is to pay off debt, he says, you can start designating a percentage of your 20 percent bucket to pay above the minimum on your loans until they are paid off.if debt isnt an issue for you, he says, you can contribute part or all of the 20 percent to a retirement fund. but in most cases, berger warns, investing 20 percent wont be enough if you want to retire early.i would say youre probably looking at at least 30 percent or higher and, again, it depends on how quickly you want to retire, he says.this financial calculator can help you figure out how much youll need to invest to retire early.control your wants and live beneath your meansberger says the biggest challenge for most people using the 50-30-20 rule is controlling their wants and living beneath their means. he says this may especially be a struggle for young professionals getting a job for the first time.youre getting the job with a little bit of money and you want as nice a car as you can afford, and you want as nice an apartment as you can afford, and then you sit back and you say oh, i cant save 20 percent, thats impossible. and its not impossible, its just that choices have been made that put you in a box that makes it really difficult, he says.berger knows from experience. after graduating from law school in the 1990s, berger was tens of thousands of dollars in debt. on top of that, he struggled with mortgage, car payments and other monthly expenses that piled up.through careful budgeting, he says his debts were paid off by 2016. he says the main reason he and his wife are now debt-free is because they continued to live beneath their means even as they paid off their loans.we live in the same house that we lived in  we bought it 14 years ago, its the same house we lived in when we made a lot less money, he says.berger says they also contributed their savings to an investment account as they paid off their debt, which grew their nest egg.so we kept our lifestyle the same even while our income went up and we put all of that to pay down that debt in saving and investing, he says.bergers advice to those who want to be debt free is simple: make a promise to yourself to not get into more debt.and to me the biggest struggle is just making that decision not to get into any more debt for any reason and sticking to it, berger says.get more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 daysneed to save money fast? try a spending banwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

with high temperatures setting in across the country, many of us are heading to the pool or the beach in our spare time. if were smart, were piling on the sunscreen to protect our skin and prevent burning, but questions abound: are we buying the right sunscreen? and finally (and for many, most important) why might we still get a sunburn even with sunscreen and how can we best treat this typically minor but painful skin irritation?there are two types of sunscreen: chemical and mechanicalfirst, a lesson in what sunscreen actually is; there are two types: chemical and mechanical.chemical sunscreens have a variety of different chemicals that actively absorb light  particularly the most damaging light, uva and uvb [ultraviolet a and ultraviolet b] rays, says dr. william wooden, a plastic surgeon specializing in skin cancer and director of operative services at indiana university school of medicine. \"this is the light that causes a burn but also can damage your cells, predisposing you to skin cancer.mechanical sunscreen, typically touted as natural, has naturally occurring elements and minerals that act like mirrors and block the rays, says dr. wooden. we have identified that you can micro-powerdize minerals and titanium oxide so it doesnt make that white goo our grandfathers wore  so if you want to stay away from chemicals, you can buy these.that said, chemical sunscreen is safe to use. essentially, as dr. wooden explains, chemical sunscreen has shown to not pose risks to ones health or secondary skin problems, and is shown to be highly effective in blocking dangerous light from the sun by absorbing it.which type of sunscreen is better?whats the best choice? dr. wooden is agnostic on the matter, feeling that its up to the consumers preference and that everyone should stick with what their skin handles best.while both types of sunscreen are safe for humans, dr. wooden points out that one type may safer than the other at least when it comes to our oceans: \"hawaii has identified that chemicals, [oxybenzone and octinoxate], which are ubiquitously common in chemical sunscreens may be damaging our coral reefs. hawaii has banned the sunscreens with these chemicals.\"if you decide to go the mineral-based or mechanical route, be sure to look for a product that has both titanium dioxide and zinc oxides, says dr. wooden.spf: 30 is the magic numberthough im someone who generally doesnt burn (likely because im more olive in skin tone, a factor ill get to shortly), i still always look for the maximum protection in sunscreen and usually end up forking over extra money on the spf 110, believing that the higher the spf grade, the greater and longer the protection. this isnt quite how it works.the difference between spfs is real, but diminishes with increasing spf numbers, says dr. s. tyler hollmig, dermatologist, dermatologic surgeon, and dermatologic oncologist at stanford health care. for example, an spf of 2 would block only about 50 percent of dangerous light, while spf 15 blocks 93 percent, spf 30 blocks 97 percent, and spf 70 blocks 98.5 percent. most dermatologists agree on an spf of 30 as sort of the magic number when it comes to sunscreen.theres some argument to be made that higher spf ratings (over 30) can be less effective than that magic spf 30, just because people tend to use less of them and apply them less often. this is definitely the case with me. ill slather the spf 30 on my body all day because its cheaper (and i because ive believed it to be less effective); meanwhile i treat my pricey spf 110 like a precious, all-powerful potion, using only a sparing layer once a day for my face.studies have shown that higher spfs actually perform like a lower spf when too little is applied, says dr. hollmig.oops. time to apply more to my face, even if use up all the expensive spf 110.how much to apply and whensunscreens should be reapplied about every two hours regardless of their spf rating; higher spf sunscreens dont necessarily last longer than lower spfs. the key is that enough sunscreen be applied (about a shot glass full is required to cover the entire body) to provide optimal protection. otherwise, people may use a sunscreen with an spf of 30 but only get spf 15 (or less) protection, says dr. hollmig.you may want to reapply more frequently if youre in the water or playing sports.sunscreen rubs off with sweat and activity, says dr. wooden, who adds to go in the shade and cool down while you reapply.additionally, you should apply the first layer of sunscreen for the day before you get in the sun so that it has time to dry and absorb.dr. wooden also emphasizes to drink lots of water before and after being in the sun.i got burned anyway! what the heck?i noted that my skin seldom burns, but my fianc, whos about as pale as one can be, gets lobster-red after a day in the sun, even if hes doused in sunscreen. why? it comes down to the evolution of skin types. see, i inherited my mothers olive-tinged mexican complexion, while my fianc, 100 percent irish, got well, the irish complexion.certain darker skin types are more tolerating of the world. theyre not immune to cancer by any means, but their [protective] skin cells called melanocytes turn on more easily, says dr. wooden. so my skin, though removed both ancestrally and geographically from mexico, was designed, through years of evolution, to be adaptable to the balmy climate. my fianc, on the other hand, has skin that had no reason to adapt to hot weather, and is meant to thrive in the drearier climes of dublin or derry, ireland.fair-skinned people like him need to go the extra step in sun care, best achieved by wearing sun-protective clothing or just staying in the shade altogether.to lower your odds of being burned, dr. joshua d. zuckerman, a plastic surgeon, recommends looking up the uv index in your area, and staying out of the sun during high uv days. even on low uv days you should apply sunscreen.treating the burn so it heals fastif you get a sunburn, youll need four things to heal it quickly:water (to drink)a tub or shower with cold wateran anti-inflammatoryand a topical, soothing ointmentthe key thing to recognize is that this is a superficial burn so rehydrating is important, says dr. wooden. you need to rehydrate from the inside out as well as from the outside in.drink tons of water, but do it in the shade or indoors so your body can cool down.once home, dr. wooden recommends soaking in a cold tub. a cool shower should also do the trick. the point is to physically cool the skin down.next is the anti-inflammatory component, says dr. wooden. an anti-inflammatory, like motrin, can be very helpful in soothing the inflammation of a sunburn.finally, youll want to treat the skin itself.bland topical creams and ointments (a shorter ingredient list is almost always better than a long one) help reduce itch and speed healing in any areas where blisters have occurred or skin has peeled, says dr. hollmig. topical anti-itch medications are typically best avoided, as these can sometimes cause an allergic skin reaction that increases discomfort. any blisters should be either left intact or gently drained from the side using a sterile needle. the roof of blisters should be left in place to serve as a protective covering of the injured skin beneath.so, what about the shaving cream hack?a new buzzfeed article that went viral featured a woman who healed her sunburn by coating the affected area in menthol shaving cream and letting it sit for 30 minutes. while it may be new to many of us, dr. wooden laughs this off as nothing new.its not a hack; its been around for years and its how shaving cream works, wooden asserts. the job of shaving cream is to hydrate, soften and moisturize.but does it work? it can  but it doesnt have to be your first go-to.i typically recommend sarna lotion that does have menthol in it, but it also has pramoxine that numbs the burn and itch, says dr. holly gunn, assistant professor in university of alabama at birminghams department of dermatology. using a creamy moisturizer with aloe vera can help too, like jason soothing aloe vera cream. you can use any creamy moisturizer several times throughout the day to help hydrate the skin.3 smart stay-hydrated strategies3 ways to remember to drink more waterwhat you should know about drinking water, but probably dont10 infused water recipes to keep you hydrated all day longwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

we all have those foods that we love eating together: peanut butter and jelly, watermelon and feta, yogurt and berries. but it turns out there may be a reason to combine certain foods in one sitting beyond simply the taste.how you combine foods can majorly impact the benefit you get from them: increasing the absorption of important nutrients and boosting the effectiveness of antioxidants. see which surprising food combos nutritionists recommend the most.1. vitamin c and plant-based ironto best absorb non-heme iron, aka plant-based iron, you need to give it a little boost by pairing it with a source of vitamin c. the vitamin c helps break the iron down into a form that the body can more easily absorb. its not enough to eat a daily diet that contains both nutrients  absorption of the iron will be much greater if the nutrients are paired in a single meal, according to research published in the american journal of clinical nutrition. add a squeeze of lemon or orange juice to a spinach salad, or toss diced apples into a lentil dish.2. tomatoes and olive oilin each red gem of a tomato, youll find lycopene, an incredible disease-fighting antioxidant. lycopene may help prevent prostate cancer, for starters. cooking the tomatoes, as well as serving them with a bit of olive oil, has shown to enhance the bodys absorption of the photochemical, says joan salge blake, edd, rdn, a clinical associate professor of nutrition at boston university. whip up a tomato sauce with olive oil, or drizzle oil onto baked tomatoes. or combine the ingredients in a summer grain bowl or a tomato naan pizza.3. turmeric and black pepperspicy stir-fry, anyone? turmeric has been used as a flavoring agent for centuries, but it also has powerful antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, says stephanie mckercher, rd, a culinary nutritionist in denver, colorado. the spice can help relieve symptoms of arthritis and may also benefit kidney health, according to a review study published in redox biology. while there havent yet been enough human studies to fully understand how it works, preclinical studies show a slew of promising benefits that make it worthwhile to integrate a little turmeric into your diet. black pepper makes the beneficial compounds in turmeric more bioavailable, so i like to combine both spices in one dish for maximum benefit, says mckercher. they happen to taste delicious together, too  i use both in my recipe for golden milk muffins.4. vitamin d and calciumthis vitamin-and-mineral combo will help keep your bones healthy. vitamin d helps bring in more calcium from the foods you eat and the supplements you take, says ginger hultin, rd, a seattle-based spokesperson for the academy of nutrition and dietetics. the two work together because the active vitamin d form causes a cascade of effects that increases the absorption of dietary calcium in the intestines. to get this pairing right, eat foods offering vitamin d, such as salmon, tuna, egg yolks or fortified foods like milk and non-dairy beverages such as soymilk and orange juice. eat a variety of calcium-providing foods, including collard greens, broccoli, dried figs, oranges and dairy foods.5. complimentary proteinsheres good reason to eat a variety of protein sources: only some foods contain all the essential amino acids your body needs. these protein sources, or complete proteins, are often obtained from animal products like meat, poultry, fish, dairy and eggs, says kate wilson mcgowan, rdn, a dietitian in brooklyn, new york. but they can also be found in non-animal products such as soy foods. other protein sources like nuts, legumes, grains, and vegetables are incomplete, meaning they lack one or more of the essential amino acids needed for growth and development. but by pairing incomplete proteins together, you can create a complete protein source. examples of these combos include rice and black beans, hummus and whole-wheat crackers, quinoa and corn, and whole-wheat bread and peanut butter. dont worry if youre not pairing foods at every eating occasion, though. you dont need to eat complementary proteins together at every meal, mcgowan says. aim to get a variety of proteins throughout the day, and youll get ample amounts of each amino acid.6. beans or chickpeas with ricebesides the benefits of the complementary proteins in beans and rice, youll get unexpected perks from eating these foods together. beans and chickpeas are packed with protein and fiber, which makes them perfect for pairing alongside starchier foods like rice, says mckercher. adding beans makes it easier for your body to regulate carbohydrates and helps prevent blood-sugar spikes and energy crashes. i like my chili lime buddha bowls for a balanced lunch or dinner!7. fat and fat-soluble vitaminsyour intestine absorbs certain vitamins  vitamin a, vitamin d, vitamin e and vitamin k  when theyre paired with a fat source. getting enough of these vitamins and maximally absorbing them is important because deficiencies are connected with heightened risk of cancer and type 2 diabetes. if possible, make the fat source a largely unsaturated one, such as nuts, seeds, avocado, olive oil or olives. one serving of sunflower butter provides healthy unsaturated fat, helping to absorb fat-soluble vitamins, says toby amidor, ms, rd, author of smart meal prep for beginners. pair a sun butter and jelly sandwich with a glass of milk and your body will use the healthy fat from the sunflower butter to help absorb the fat-soluble vitamins a and d from the milk. other ideas: youll find vitamin a and vitamin k in leafy green veggies; vitamin a in orange and yellow veggies and tomatoes; and vitamin e in a variety of nuts and seeds, says hultin.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

youve got some serious health goals. youre eating well and yet, something is amiss. i often hear from clients and friends who are trying to de-bloat or drop a few pounds, or perhaps cut back on added sugar or just fuel their busy life in a better way, but despite eating healthfully, are having trouble meeting their targets. if this sounds familiar, read on for some of the top healthy food mishaps you might be making. once you spot them and learn how to course correct, you can get back on track.label confusionit has been demonstrated time and again that food labels can impact your perception. in one study, participants tasted identical versions of potato chips, cookies and yogurt, the only difference being that one version was labeled organic and the other was labeled regular. the foods with organic labels were deemed to have fewer calories and taste healthier than the exact same product with the regular label. in another study  this time using chocolatethe label fair trade (which indicates ethical treatment of workers) was taken to mean that the treat was lower in calories. in many cases, people are prompted to eat more when they think theyre eating healthier or lighter food. i know i would!rather than relying on marketing lingo  whether youre browsing a supermarket aisle or an instagram food blogger (gluten-free lava cake, #cleaneating, you cant fool me!)  take note of the ingredients. limit foods made with refined grains (whether they contain gluten or not) as well as added sugar. and when it comes to sugar, get clear on the fact that your body processes all forms in a similar manner  whether you consume regular ol table sugar, maple syrup, honey, agave or any number of added sweeteners.green juicesjust because models and celebrities drink green juice doesnt mean theyre right for you. if your goal is to get more veggies and you have trouble meeting your quota, green juice can help you fill the gaps. but if youre sufficiently meeting your produce needs or youre trying to lose weight, green juice can be tripping you up. in many cases, these sips have more fruit than veggies, which means more sugar, calories and carbs, and truthfully, none of us need any of those nutrients in excess. and ive seen people whose weight loss stalled because they added a green juice, or even worse, crept up. no matter what your health goals are, the best green juices are those made predominantly with vegetables. even better are those that are blended rather than extracted. blending retains the fiber  a beneficial nutrient thats removed from juice.portion problemsi was recently scanning food blogs when i was lured in by a beautiful avocado smoothie bowl recipe. upon reading the instructions, which listed the recipe as one serving, i noticed it called for three bananas and one mango, among other things. certainly fruit is healthy, but anything  even healthy food  can be eaten in excess. any time you overeat, it can interfere with weight loss or worse, cause weight gain. and some foods, while perfectly tolerable in proper portions, can lead to extra gas and bloating if overconsumed. (excess fructose from too much fruit can have this effect.) the extra carbs, calories and sugar from all this fruit can be problematic, even though it comes with a slew of vitamins, minerals and fiber.portion size is influenced by a number of factors. eating a handful of almonds might mean something different in my hand compared to yours. a drizzle of olive oil can vary, depending on whos pouring, and the avocado mash on your toast might be too little or too much, depending on your needs. if your clothes arent fitting as well as youd like, youre dealing with excess bloat, or your energy could use a lift, you may need to right-size your portion sizes. its not necessary to start weighing and measuring all your food at each sitting, but it could be helpful to do that once or twice until your eyeballs adjust to the amount.over-snackingaccording to one survey, 91% of americans say they snack multiple times a day, and 21% of us are snacking more than we did five years ago. certainly, between-meal snacking can provide a needed energy boost, slip more nutrients into your day and fend off hunger. often, though, we snack for other reasons. visual cues, like office donuts, emotional triggers, such as a stressful meeting or argument with a spouse or even to pre-empt potential hunger are some of the many reasons ive seen. unneeded snacks, even if healthful, can leave your body feeling less than awesome.to reverse the over-snacking situation, start to become more aware of your snack triggers. are the kids driving you crazy and you find yourself reaching for something to dial down your emotions? did you just spot that your lunch meeting is a little later than your usual schedule and you want to make sure you can power through? once you build awareness, ask yourself if youre truly hungry. notice physical signs of hunger, like a bit of an empty feeling in your stomach, slight growling and so on. if they arent there, consider holding off. if signs of hunger are present, have a small snack. if you routinely notice physical signs of hunger multiple times a day, your meals may not be satisfying you, and they could require a little attention.light lunchesbe it breakfast, lunch or dinner, i often hear from people who are over-relying on snacks to tame hunger after a light meal. i find this is especially true for people looking to lose a little weight. eating less at meals, the thinking goes, will produce weight loss, however if youre physically hungry an hour or two after a meal, and reaching for snacks as a result, you could gain weight instead of losing it.instead of an ultra-light meal, go for a lean one that is enjoyable and satisfying. i recommend a veggie-centric approach. start with a veggie base (whether cooked or raw, like a salad) and build up from there. pick enough protein to satisfy your appetite past the two-hour mark  be it plant-based or another choice, such as chicken, fish, or eggs. i often go with a mixture, such as some chicken and black beans, or tuna and a boiled egg. accent your meal with a scoop of cooked whole grains, like quinoa or brown rice, or a starchy veggie, such as grilled corn or sweet potato, and include some plant-based fats, like olives, avocado, or nuts for added staying power. and dont forget to right-size the meal for your needs (see above). i bet youll find a meal like this does its job of keeping you satiated better than your typical light fare, and that will help curb the between-meal snacking that could be keeping you from reaching your goals.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

caffeine is readily consumed by about 85 percent of americans one way or another every single day, according to a study published in food and beverage toxicology. thats quite a buzz! coffee  caffeines most popular vehicle of delivery  has been closely examined by scientists and researchers for years to determine whether or not its healthy. lately, science is tipping the scales toward healthy  a new study revealed even the heaviest coffee drinkers are less likely to die earlier than people who wont touch the stuff.studies associate coffee drinking with a decreased risk of depression, parkinsons disease, type 2 diabetes, liver disease and liver cancer, says trevor rich, m.d., mayo clinic health system in eau claire, wisconsin. some of these associations are seen even in drinkers of decaffeinated coffee and may be related to the antioxidants contained in coffee. yet, rich also mentions a study published in mayo clinic proceedings that found moderate caffeine intake  not just from coffee  was also associated with living longer.richs theory about the antioxidants from coffee seems strong. but scientists have yet to tease apart exactly why coffee might be the best source of caffeine, says dr. jennifer temple, director, nutrition and health research laboratory at university at buffalo. what seems to be consistent is that the health benefits apply to both regular and decaffeinated coffee, so it (the benefits) may not come from caffeine. there are some studies that show that chronic coffee consumption is associated with lower blood pressure, but the mechanism is unclear, she explains.how caffeine in coffee (and anything else) worksderived from plants, caffeine is a stimulant most commonly found in coffee beans, tea, soft drinks, cocoa and chocolate. it enters your blood stream quickly, activating your central nervous system and making you feel more alert around 15 minutes after you have some  an effect that can last for up to 6 hours. considering 1-in-3 americans are sleep deprived, according to the cdc, its no wonder caffeine is so popular. consumption of caffeine is commonly associated with improvements in certain measurements of cognitive performance, says rich.your nervous system quickly builds a tolerance to caffeine and learns to expect the stimulating effect. it seems addictive because it enhances dopamine signaling in the brain  meaning its easier for the feel-good chemical to take effect. temple says, though caffeine addiction isnt in the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (dsm) right now, it might soon be  the world health organization certainly recognizes that it is addictive. many caffeine users become dependent and the latest edition of the dsm has recognized caffeine dependence as a syndrome and are developing diagnostic criteria, she explains.how much coffee is safe to drink?rich says and research has found, for most people, the equivalent of 3-4 cups of coffee is considered safe to have per day  in fact its linked to a lower risk of premature death and heart disease than those who dont have any.to make your coffee consumption work for you, u.s. army researchers have even developed an app called 2b-alert to determine how much caffeine you should drink  and when you should drink it  to achieve peak alertness. the algorithm can reportedly improve performance and attention by up to 64 percent, thus reducing caffeine consumption by up to 65 percent.how coffee is good for youstudies galore have confirmed the various health benefits coffee can provide (to some). drinking as many as 3 cups of black coffee a day may reduce the risk of heart disease, stroke, alzheimers disease, type 2 diabetes, liver disease and multiple sclerosis. plus, a study from the harvard t.h. chan school of public health found heavy coffee drinkers (4+ cups per day) to have a significantly lower risk of early death from colorectal cancer.how coffee is not so good for youthere are, of course, the not-so-pleasant side effects of coffee, like the jitters and heartburn. also, since coffee is a stimulant, drinking a lot  especially closer to bed time  might not be wise if you have sleep issues though during the day. heavy coffee consumption (3-4 cups) during pregnancy has been associated with low birthweight and preterm births.why can some people drink coffee at night while others cant?physically, rich explains the answer to this question lies in the liver. caffeine is metabolized predominantly by the liver. there is an enzyme that takes an active role in this metabolizing process. any genetic variation in this enzyme may also influence the metabolism speed, which also may partially explain differentiating tolerances and experiences between two given individuals, he says.temple says that tolerance also has a lot to do with it  the more you drink, the more you can tolerate over time.whats the best way to avoid withdrawal?any chronic coffee drinker whos had to quit or cut down can attest kicking it is no joke  even letting go of a single cup of coffee per day can cause symptoms. caffeine withdrawal is a well-evidenced and well-documented clinical experience, says rich, who explains withdrawal symptoms most typically start within 24 hours, get to peak intensity within 1-2 days and may last for 1-2 weeks. the most common symptoms are a headache, fatigue, fogginess, a foul mood and difficulty concentrating. as brutal as it might be, it is relatively short-lived, says temple.what about decaf?it may be called decaffeinated, but decaf coffee still contains caffeine  around 12mgs or more. the good news? you still get the health benefits.more on diet and your healthwhat to order at starbucks the best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its been a few years since i was on the hunt for a job, but i can easily bring to mind how miserable the process could be. it wasnt unusual to spend hours perfecting cover letters and modifying my resume to upload onto platforms, only to have the whole application fail to load due to a glitch in the site. then id have to start all over (and i almost always would). but i sucked it up and played by the companys or recruiters rules because what choice did i have? the ball wasnt in my court, it was in theirs, and at the time (circa 2014) the u.s was still picking its feet up from the great recession and there wasnt exactly a plethora of decent jobs available. but the tables have turned. in a tight labor market with a historically low unemployment rate, todays job seekers arent wasting their time on organizations that dont show them respect in the hiring process.candidates will dump a company if its hiring process is subparin its latest research, the candidate experience report, icims, a recruiting software provider, found that almost all job seekers (95 percent of those consulted) agree that how a prospective employer treats them as a candidate is a reflection of how they would treat them as an employee. the survey also found that 67 percent of employed american adults would decide whether or not to take a job based on the application, interview or offer process.and so the pressure is on companies not only to put their best foot forward at the start of hiring talks, but right off the bat with their application processes.a glitchy application site says you dont value potential employees timewhen candidates get to company site to apply for a job and the technology is terrible, more than 50 percent of them will [abandon the process], says susan vitale, cmo with icims. companies may spend a fortune on recruiting efforts and then lose because a candidates resume doesnt load right or they had to answer the same question 25 times because of a bug in the site.joseph sherman, a 37-year-old project adviser at a marketing and advertising firm who says that hes left job applications because of technical bugs in the site, finds that these glitches arent just annoying  theyre signs that a company doesnt have its priorities straight.sites crashing because the server is overloaded, a page that only works using a specific web browser and archaic programming [are] red flags, says sherman. ease of application says a lot about how a company values its potential employees time. it also shows the direction of the company. are they going to lead their industry, or fall behind as a late adopter of technology? who wants to work for a company that is lagging behind?forget emailing, texting is the better way to quickly connectmost online hiring plans occur via email, but when it comes to scheduling interviews, managers may want to switch to text. icims survey found that when it comes to scheduling interviews, text messaging is preferred (57 percent) over the standard email arrangements.communicate with candidates the way they want to be communicated with, says vitale. for many thats text messaging. a lot of these employee candidates arent behind a desk a day  especially if theyre in construction or healthcare  so texting is a lot more effective.icims survey found that when it comes to scheduling interviews, text messaging is preferred (57 percent) over the standard email arrangements.employers should also consider setting up an auto-text of some sort when the interview date is nearing, providing directions and any instructions.candidates want to get reminders about job interviews just as they do with their hair or doctor appointments, says vitale. something like hi, youre scheduled to meet with these three people today. heres a link to directions and parking information. theres a huge rise of interest here.most importantly, show the applicant you care, even if that means rejecting themicims survey found that 76 percent of people say that not hearing back from an employer after applying for a job is more frustrating than not hearing back from someone after a first date.it takes only a second to say: hey, we got your resume and want to thank you for applying, says laura handrick, career analyst at fit small business, adding that text messaging is ideal for this. by [responding], you open a communication channel with the applicant and set your employment brand apart as a company that is responsive and engages with people instead of hiding behind a process.responding can also help your company garner a positive reputation  and avoid some ugly ramifications.people are two-thirds less likely to be a consumer of a brand if they have a negative experience on the hiring side, says vitale. leaders need to pay attention and treat the candidates with the respect they deserve.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

perhaps you were coming home from a tiring day at the beach with your family, commuting to work, or pushing through the last leg of a long road trip. your eyes felt heavy and began to droop. and you fought off an endless series of yawns while struggling a bit to keep your eyes on the road.sound familiar? reports show that for many of us it does. this year, aaa reported that the number of crashes involving drowsiness is almost eight times higher than federal estimates indicate. and according to the national sleep foundations sleep in america poll, 60 percent of adults admitted to driving drowsy and 37 percent admitted to having fallen asleep at the wheel. a more recent sleep health index put out by the foundation found that 3 percent of americans  which would equate to 7 million people  admitted to falling asleep at the wheel within a two-week period.it may be an alarmingly common experience, but its one that maureen short, a human factors expert and senior safety engineer for chevrolet, hopes to reduce.we want people to understand how dangerous it is to drive drowsy, short told nbc news better, especially during the summer when kids are out of school and people are more likely to take long road trips. drowsy driving causes a few things: one, youre going to have a delayed reaction, and that is critical when youre driving ... to be able to respond if you have an unexpected event. the second thing is that your decision making is impaired.in fact, the national sleep foundation reports that sleep deprivation can have similar effects on your body as drinking alcohol. \"being awake for 18 hours straight makes you drive like you have a blood alcohol level of .05 (for reference, .08 is considered drunk),\" they report. \"if youve been awake for a full 24 hours and drive  say, after a night where you just couldnt fall asleep  its like you have a blood alcohol level of .10.\"to help spread awareness about the dangerous effects that fatigue can have on drivers, short is travelling to a few cities this summer conducting drowsy driving simulations. during the simulation, participants don a 23-pound suit and goggles that replicate how your body feels when you are driving in a drowsy state, including delayed blinking patterns, sluggishness and extreme tiredness.the simulation goggles change the way your eyes close and really give you the idea of what its like to drive while drowsy, says short. as you get tired, the way we can tell is by your percent of eye closure, so every 10 seconds, the goggles close for one second; this represents being a medium level of drowsy, and mimics your eye pattern when youre tired. if youre truly drowsy and you nod off, it can be 2-4 seconds of eye closure at a time.the weighted suit works to slow your reaction time, similar to how it is slowed when youre tired. \"when that reaction is slowed, you dont always feel the effects,\" says short. \"unfortunately, drowsiness doesnt just happen quickly; it happens over time.i suited up and took part in the simulation when short set up shop in the parking lot of citi field in new york city earlier this summer. it was definitely unnerving (to say the least) to have my field of vision obstructed every 10  and then every 4  seconds. when told to turn either left or right at the last minute, having a reduced field of vision slowed my decision making skills  and then i had a delayed reaction time once i did decide which way to turn, thanks to the weights on my ankles and wrists.while i attempted to navigate the course, short reminded me that while we were driving on a closed course going just 15-25 miles per hour, on the highway, youre driving 60 to 70 miles per hour and covering a lot more area, which really increases the risk.4 signs that youre too tired to be behind the wheelreducing the occurrence of driving drowsy starts with being able to recognize the signs that you may be too tired to be behind the wheel. short says to look out for these commons signals that our bodies are fatigued and our ability to drive may be impaired:yawning. continually yawning or the inability to keep your eyes open. yawning is one of the simplest indicators to signal that youre tired, short says.memory lapse. if you dont remember the last couple of exits or last couple of miles, youre getting tired and need to stop, she says.lane deviation. if youre starting to go back and forth in the lane, drifting from lane to lane and/or engaging the rumble strips on the side of the road, its time to pullover.unsafe driving maneuvers. frequent tailgating, braking or other unsafe driving maneuvers are a sign you may be dozing off, especially if active safety features (like lane keep assist, lane departure warning and others) have been engaged more than average.strategies to help you get home safeweve all tried to power through that last 30 minutes of a long journey or had too early of a start in the morning when were still groggy. short encourages us to recognize when were too tired to drive and not get behind the wheel in the first place. when you do recognize the symptoms above, \"number one is always to get off the road, says short. but until you can, there are some strategies you can use to help keep yourself alert.call someone. call a friend, call your mom, or if you are in a vehicle with other passengers wake them up and have them talk to you, and really get your mind engaged,\" says short.take advantage of the safety systems in your car. many cars come equipped with features designed to keep you safe on the road. turn on your active safety systems,\" says short. \"at chevy, we have lane departure warning and lane keep assist, those will help you stay in the lane. and forward collision alert. give yourself enough time as possible to make a decision.\"play mental games. anything that gets your brain engaged mentally will help you stay alert. \"if you start to feel your mind wander, go old-school and play eye-spy, 20 questions or the billboard alphabet game,\" says short. \"engaging your mind can often help you stay alert, so you can focus on the road ahead.\"consider a nap. aaa says to not underestimate the power of a quick nap. if youre on a longer drive or road trip, pulling into a rest stop and taking a quick catnap  at least 20 minutes and no more than 30 minutes of sleep  can help to keep you alert on the road, they say.dont rely on quick fixes. short stresses not to rely on energy drinks or coffee to power you through your trip. there is no better way to tackle tiredness than getting the recommended amount of sleep, she says. if youre too tired to focus, consider pulling over in a safe place for a nap or find the nearest hotel to get a good nights rest, she says. dont be fooled, the only antidote for drowsiness is sleep, said william van tassel, manager of driver training for aaa. short term tactics like drinking coffee, singing, or rolling down the window will not work. your bodys need for sleep will eventually override your brains attempts to stay awake.ready to get more zzzs? read these and rest better7 ways to actually get to bed an hour earlier tonightwhy lack of sleep is costing us billions of dollars8 sleep mistakes you can fix tonight16 ways to get a better nights sleep without popping a pillwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

since she was a very little girl, the now 18-year-old alanna walls favorite pastime was having her nails done. it wasnt just the pretty polish and shiny glitter that she loved; it was also the quality time at the nail salon with her grandma and the whimsical reprieve from everyday tasks. by the time she was 10, she was determined to bring this joy to those who may especially benefit from this lighthearted indulgence: pediatric patients and girls with special needs.i loved the way that having my nails done made me feel: girly and special, wall, who goes by lonnie and lives in dayton, ohio tells nbc news better. i knew that some kids didnt always feel that way  didnt feel beautiful  and i wanted to bring that feeling to them.plan a didnt work; but plan b was pretty magnificentwall had a dream but she didnt have a clear way of executing it (after all, she was only 10 years old). she tried volunteering in hospitals but was turned down for being under 15  the minimum age for approved volunteers. her mother, valerie, a nurse who has believed in her daughters mission from the start, turned to the miami valley down syndrome association to see if theyd be interested in letting lonnie come in and give manicures to the girls there. they were  and wall quickly became a favorite volunteer at the center, where she would go on to form lasting friendships.im still close with the first girl i ever polished [who i met there], olivia, who has down syndrome. shes 24-years-old now and in a way i feel like we grew up together, wall says. i try to make the monthly meetings there, but if not i always see her and my other friends at the annual christmas party.from a pipe dream to a registered non-profitworking with girls at the down syndrome association gave wall the opportunity to share her time and talents with people she may not have otherwise met who enjoyed getting their nails done; but she was still determined to bring nail art to children in the hospital.to help make this happen, she registered polished girlz as a 503(c). her parents helped with all the paperwork, just as they helped her trademark the name, launch a website and establish a presence on social media.a call to action for other kids looking to give backlonnie may still not have been able to volunteer herself in hospitals, but once official, polished girlz could enlist the volunteer services of older girls who were looking to fulfill community service hour requirements for their high schools.soon, girls who met the 15-year-old age minimum were signing up to join the cause. the process for volunteers is pretty simple: you fill out an application online and if approved, you donate $55 to polished girlz which covers the cost of your caboodles carry case, a polished girlz t-shirt, nail polish, remover, hand sanitizer, glitter and nail art stickers. you can be as young as eight to apply. theres no age cut-off.i didnt want to limit young girls who want to serve their community like i did, says wall, who is now old enough to do hands on hospital volunteer work where approved. i felt it was important for kids to know they could be a part of this.wall adds that you also dont have to be/identify as a girl to volunteer. we have plenty of polished guyz!thousands of kids and some very powerful bondsin the seven years since its inception, polished girlz has acquired over 900 volunteers around the u.s and has served thousands of children in a growing list of hospitals and care facilities. though wall has had her hands full with school commitments (my parents and i always agree that my education has to come first, she says), she still frequently spends weekends in the hospital with her nail kit.some of the children she works with shes visited multiple times and has become particularly invested in; take mariah, for example, a four-year old girl who was born with chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction (cipo)  a rare gastrointestinal disorder.over the past three years polished girlz has popped in to polish mariah, who is in and out of the hospital constantly, erin grubb, mariahs mom tells nbc news better. the first time lonnie and her mom came, mariah was in the icu and the world was not so bright. but they came in and mariah got to feel so special and pretty. its so important to help these kids feel beautiful and normal especially those dealing with a chronic condition who really need comfort and normalcy. theyre also great with siblings who may be feeling left out when the majority of the parents concentration is on the sick child.its so important to help these kids feel beautiful and normal especially those dealing with a chronic condition who really need comfort and normalcy.grubb says that wall keeps track of mariahs story by following the familys facebook page prayers for mariah, and might swing by with her kit when noting that mariah is back in the hospital. wall also posts updates on polished girlzs instagram about mariahs journey and her strength, summoning not only good wishes for the child, but helping raise awareness for cipo, a condition that grubb says affects only one in 300,000 births.this is isnt just fun for kids, its liberatingits grubbs hope that more hospitals will enlist organizations like polished girlz, or implement their own self-care programs for children who could benefit from a splash of fun in such a starkly serious environment.everyone can use a spa day now and then.everyone can use a spa day now and then, grubb says. and i know for me, seeing mariah happy is the brightest moment in my day. i wouldnt miss it for the world.wall has every intention of continuing to grow polished girlz, but right now, shes primarily focused on getting ready for college in the fall.im going to usc, she says with well-earned pride. and im studying business.surely, shes already something of a master in that department.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

kelly ripas bikini bod has been the subject of online chatter for years, and so is the alkaline diet she follows to stay in prime shape. a quick google search brings up a host of claims  from glowing skin to weight loss to pain relief. some practitioners claim to cure degenerative conditions, digestive disorders and reproductive issues.depending on the source, you may read a lot of bogus information about the alkaline diet, but famous fans aside, the plan does have some merit. heres what you need to know.alkaline diet 101the alkaline diet is based on the premise that the acid or alkaline load of the food you eat can impact your health  poorly if youre eating a higher acid load and positively if youre consuming foods that promote a more alkaline environment. fruits, veggies and seeds promote body-wide alkalinity whereas meats, fish, grains, eggs and dairy are considered acid-forming foods. drinks, like alcohol, coffee, and even your favorite carbonated water (like, la croix) are also said to promote acid formation in your body. organic produce is often recommended because the soil is said to be richer in alkaline-forming compounds.what you can eatfruitsvegetablesseedstofulegumeswhats off limitsdairymeatfishprocessed foodsmost grainscoffeethe first point of confusion: the diet isnt based on the acidity or alkalinity of foods themselves. take a lemon or an orange, both of which are considered acidic fruits, but are alkaline-forming foods. the chemistry lesson here is that the diet is all about the metabolic by-products of these foods rather than the foods themselves.acidity and alkalinity are measured on a ph scale. levels of ph are varied within organs and systems, and beyond that, within certain cells. the second point of confusion: the diet doesnt change your overall ph or your blood ph levels. its well established that certain systems maintain tight control over ph levels (for instance, your blood and stomach are kept within strict ph targets). though the ph of some of these environments wont change, eating mostly alkaline-forming foods can impact your cellular ph levels.research suggests that your cells function more optimally when you eat a high alkaline load, and this might result in some pretty good benefits. the most solid science is around maintaining lean muscle mass in aging adults, a reduced risk for high blood pressure and stroke, reduced back pain and potential bone health benefits.measuring your bodys phsome hard-core followers measure the ph of their urine or saliva. you can buy kits and strips to help you do this, though most experts dont consider your urine ph a window to your health. you can benefit from the core commandments of an alkaline diet without creating a chemistry lab in your bathroom.the foodlets get away from chemistry and get back to food now. think about the typical american diet for a moment. it tends to be high in sugar, refined grains, sodium (mostly from the packaged foods we eat) and meats, but low in fruits and veggies  pretty much the opposite of an alkaline diet menu.when we eat this way, we over-consume sodium (a problem for 90 percent of americans), but under-consume potassium and magnesium, minerals that help our cells function well. this pattern of eating is linked with chronic conditions, including heart disease, type 2 diabetes, obesity and certain forms of cancer.an alkaline diet has a lot in common with a vegan diet, though there are other restrictions that go along with alkaline eating (so long beloved la croix and coffee). common sense (and science) tells us there are benefits to consuming more plants. i go into detail about a vegan diet here, but the gist is that a totally meatless menu has been linked with better blood pressure, a lower risk of heart disease, a reduced risk of type 2 diabetes and even weight improvements. are you starting to see some similarities here? some benefits of an alkaline diet can definitely be attributed to a higher alkaline load, but note that youll also be taking in tons of vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and other plant compounds that are clearly and consistently linked to better health  even among those who are eating whole grains and other foods that are off-limits on the alkaline diet.will you lose weight?if youre currently loading up on a typical american diet with lots of sugary and refined carbs, like pizza, chips, cookies and soda, eating hamburgers and fries, and are among the 90 percent of americans who isnt consuming enough fruits and veggies, yeah, youll probably lose weight. lets be clear about this: yes, you may lose weight, but its unlikely that your slimmer frame has anything to do with your ph levels. it has to do with replacing high-calorie foods that dont fill you up with low-calorie, high-quality foods that do.will you become ripped, like kelly ripa? thats unlikely. though i dont work with her, i think its safe to say that in addition to eating this way, she also takes exercise seriously. good genes may also be at play. and she might be extra motivated to stay fit and slim given her career in front of a camera. lets not forget that a hollywood aesthetic is not necessarily ideal. bodies come in lots of shapes and sizes, and if you lose weight by eating well, moving routinely and youre also keeping your health in check, thats the most important thing.is the alkaline diet right for you?the good news, as ive explained before, is that you can lose weight and improve your health on a variety of plans. if youre used to eating meat every day, going totally meat-free may not feel doable for you. in that case, id suggest finding another way to go. programs and diet plans only work when theyre sustainable. if it doesnt feel like you can eat this way for the rest of your life, its going to be an uphill battle to stick with it. even kelly ripa has admitted that she doesnt follow the alkaline diet to a t. she reportedly relies on coffee with cream and enjoys ros and fish from time to time. this makes her human! we all have our vices.one thing i can say for sure: we can all benefit from getting more produce in our diets, but you dont need the alkaline diet to do that.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the germiest place in our home  or at least, the space most susceptible to germ cultivation  is undoubtedly the kitchen. areas like the kitchen sink and objects such as the cutting board are prone to more bacteria than the toilet bowl. to avoid the dangerous germs that can cause disease, we need to replace the pots, pans and cutting boards once theyve worn out their hygienic welcome.how often we toss our kitchen items depends less on how long we use them, and more on how well we maintain them. this issue of maintenance really depends on one crucial factor: cleaning. that may sound obvious, but cleaning can be an intricate process, and youre not going to want to use the same method for your knife set that you use for refrigerator coils. and those ice trays, no matter how effectively you clean them, just dont have the kind of longevity as well cared for coffee mug.we talked to a number of cleaning experts to get the nitty-gritty details of how to clean everything in your kitchen.the fridgean entire article or three could be devoted to this one big-ticket item, but heres the short version of how to clean this multifaceted machine, according to doug rogers, president of mr. appliance, a neighborly company.the outside: dampen a cloth with soapy water and wipe down the top, doors and sides of the fridge. for stainless steel refrigerators, use stainless steel spray. give extra attention to the handles where grimy fingerprints linger.the door seals: wipe them down with a soapy cloth. dry the seals thoroughly and check that they seal properly. replace any cracked or worn seals to improve fridge efficiency.the inside: turn off the fridge and empty it completely, including removing crisper drawers and detachable shelves. wipe down the interior with a soapy cloth. for a no-rinse formula, use two tablespoons of baking soda dissolved in one quart of hot water. to remove stubborn stains, create a baking soda paste with a small amount of water. let the paste loosen the stain while you finish cleaning the rest of the fridge. return to this trouble spot at the end.soak shelves and bins: wash these removable items in warm soapy water. let stubborn stains soak, and then scrub them clean. rinse and dry the shelves and bins thoroughly before returning them to the fridge.the refrigerator coils: these are located either on the back or the bottom of your refrigerator. first, check behind the grille at the bottom of the fridge. if you dont see the coils there, pull the fridge away from the wall and check behind it. wherever the coils are located, clean them with the brush attachment of your vacuum cleaner. cleaning the coils helps the fridge run more efficiently, which helps it last longer and decreases operating costs.the blenderwhile a popular small appliance choice for many kitchens, blenders provide the perfect environment for stain-causing bacteria to grow, says gina sloan, director of innovations at microban. there are several dark and cool areas where moisture can creep in and remain after cleaning; plus, residue from fruit and vegetable sugars can act as a nutrition source for those same bacteria. if youre not using a blender with built-in antimicrobial technology, you should look to replace these appliances every few months.while a popular small appliance choice for many kitchens, blenders provide the perfect environment for stain-causing bacteria to grow.for cleaning, leanne stapf, vp of operations, the cleaning authority recommends filling the blender with warm water, adding a small drop of dish soap and then turn it on for a few minutes to mix up then solution. you can then rinse with warm water and dry. to get rid of any lingering odors, mix a 50/50 baking soda and water solution and leave the solution for 10 minutes, she adds.the coffee makeryou should decalcify (remove mineral buildup) your coffee maker every 1 to 2 months, says stapf. you can also gently clean it every week to help this appliance last longer. the quality of maker, amount of usage and routine maintenance can affect how long this appliance will last. in general, you can expect a good coffee maker to last around five years.to clean your coffee machine, jennifer rodriguez, chief hygiene officer at pro housekeepers says to run equal parts white vinegar and water mix through one brew cycle. then run only water through another cycle to get rid of the vinegar aroma.the tea kettlethe boiling water in a teakettle will kill germs, making this one of the easiest items to manage. but its important to use your kettle frequently to keep it clean on the inside and to not let the water stand for long, which causes rust and gradual hard water deposition in the inner surfaces, says ivan ong, vp of research and development at microban. if deposition has collected inside, boil equal parts white vinegar and water and let sit for a few hours. follow-up with a boiling rinse. cleaning the exterior with apple cider vinegar and baking soda will help restore the shine.the fruit bowla new study by porch, a company that sets up contractors with homeowners, found that the average fruit bowl contains more than 3.4 million colony-forming units (cfus) per square inch  11 times the bacteria of a typical pets food bowl. why is the fruit bowl so filthy? mainly because we just forget to clean it and may neglect to wash the fruit before dumping it in there (focusing instead on rinsing it before we eat).the average fruit bowl contains more than 3.4 million colony-forming units (cfus) per square inch  11 times the bacteria of a typical pets food bowl.make sure fruit is thoroughly washed before placing it in the fruit bowl, and clean the container weekly with a detergent solution and wipe or stand dry before reusing, says ong.pots and pansthese can be hand-washed or blasted in the dishwasher after use, but nonstick pans usually need to be chucked after a year or two at most, says stapf. you can get the most out of these items by storing them smartly.to extend the lifespan of these items and prevent scratching, try putting a liner in-between if you stack them in storage, use proper utensils to stir food, wait for the pan to cool down before washing and avoid putting them in the dishwasher, she notes.dishwarewhen washing dishware in the dishwasher, its important to leave enough space for water to move freely  dont over-stuff it, advises stapf. place bowls faced toward the back (so you cant see the inside from below) and put them on the top rack of the washer.silverwarewhen cleaning [silverware], its important to not let the utensils soak in water for a long period of time and to use mild soap and warm water when rinsing, says stapf. when using a dishwasher, load spoons and forks with the handle down, and place knives in a separate section to prevent scratching. periodically, you can also polish your silverware to remove and build up or discoloration. stainless steel flatware is very durable and with proper care, can last a lifetime.knife setstapf recommends cleaning knives with warm water, soap and a wash cloth. avoid scrub pads as they can sometimes damage the finish, also avoid washing them in the dishwasher. by regularly cleaning and sharpening the blades, a good knife set can last a lifetime.ice traysice trays are exposed to many different types of food in your freezer, so it can be common for odors to absorb into the ice cubes, causing them to taste funny, notes stapf. to clean out your tray, run it under warm water to get rid of any ice residue. you can mix two teaspoons of baking soda to half a cup of warm water and scrub the solution into each section with a cloth. rinse with warm water and you should be all set. depending on the quality and amount of usage, ice trays can last from one to a few years.tupperware and plastic containersyou can hand wash tupperware (per the companys recommendations), but these plastic items that you may want to try to phase out of your kitchen life. they dont last long and the cons outweigh the pros.if plastic, its important to keep track of how long youve had the tupperware, as chemicals can migrate out of the plastic when heating up, notes stapf. if the tupperware is cracked, discolored or deformed, its time to throw it out. glass storage containers last much longer, are safer and more eco-friendly.dish drainwhile helpful for cleanup, drainers can harbor stain-causing bacteria, mold and mildew thanks to their wet environment and close contact with a variety of surfaces. be sure to wipe the drainer down after each use, says sloan. a dish drainer with built-in antimicrobial technology will provide an inhospitable environment for mold, mildew and bacteria for the life of the product; otherwise, these items should be replaced every one to three months.mugs and glassessimply put [these] in the dishwasher; the hot temperatures and heated dry cycle will keep your mugs and glasses germ-free, says stapf, reminding us all to take home our favorite work coffee mugs nightly for a wash down. with good care, mugs and glasses can last a lifetime.dishtowelswash well in hot water daily, preferably using bleach, says ong. dish towels are used to wipe all manner of surfaces and items in the kitchen and tend to stay moist; hence it is good practice to change them daily.the trash canto clean your trashcan while the bag is out, take a half vinegar to water solution and wipe the can down, says stapf, noting that this not only disinfects but also eliminates lingering odors. another idea is to sprinkle a bit of baking soda in the bottom of the can. ideally, you should be changing your trash bag every one to three days to minimize odors.more cleaning hacksquick and easy diy cleaning hacks thatll make life easierhow often you should clean your home, according to sciencewhy the 20/10 method can change the way you cleanhow often to replace everything in your bathroom, bedroomand kitchenwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

a second hand dress, no centerpieces, no band, only 25 guests and no printed invitations  thats the formula elizabeth bitterman is using to keep the total cost of her wedding this september under $5,000.for the most part, everything has been easy  including the $1,000 dress she scored for $150 at bhldn.com and the emailed invites  but cutting the guest list was a challenge. i had to get over offending people i wasnt including, which was tough, says bitterman, a certified financial planner at john g. ullman and associates wealth management firm in new york. we realized all of a sudden our guest list was going to be 400 people, but we couldnt do that. i had to call people and say, hey, this is whats going on, were keeping it small.with wedding spending, its easy to lose sight of the big picture  in bittermans view, when youre looking at spending the rest of your life with your spouse, a single day shouldnt put you in debt. i see a lot of people who finance these events with a credit card, or take money from their investment accounts. they see what everyone else is doing, and they assume they need to keep up, rather than talking about what they can really afford. but would you rather set yourself up for a solid financial future together, or have a big party?unfortunately, too many of us choose the big party and wind up regretting what we spend, according to a new survey by everquote, an online insurance marketplace. some of the most commonly regretted expenditures include the venue, the flowers and decorations, the band and the food. everything seems important when youre planning, says amy danise, senior editor at everquote. you may need to cut back in some places so you can splurge in others.thankfully, there are many ways to have your wedding cake, eat it too  and still not wake up with a with a debt hangover. heres a look at a few of them.1. stock up on your own boozerather than hiring a bartender who will supply alcohol, find someone who is licensed to serve the alcohol you purchase. wait until theres a sale at your local liquor store and stock up on your favorite beverages, recommends mona desai, growth and events manager at peerspace event space marketplace, which specializes in affordable wedding venues. just make sure you check the license for your venue and confirm that youre allowed to byob (and bartender).2. keep it intimate\"gone are the days when your moms distant cousin needs to attend your wedding, desai says. invite just your closest friends and family. not only will you save, your day will be made all the more special when you can spend time with those closest to you.i invited old friends i hadnt seen in years out of guilt, because they invited me to their wedding years ago, or we have friends in common and i didnt want them to feel left out, says mandi woodruff, executive editor of personal finance education site magnifymoney. although none of them accepted the invitation, she says it would have added hundreds of dollars to her wedding budget if they had. her rule of thumb: if you havent heard from them in 6 months, they probably shouldnt get an invite.3. skip a wedding planner in favor of an onsite event coordinatorrather than hiring a wedding planner to manage every aspect of your day from start to finish, do as much advance planning as you can via online resources. then, for the day-of, hire an onsite coordinator who can run the show, allowing you to enjoy your day, desai says. theyll take all the heavy lifting off your hands. it should cost about 1/10 the cost of a traditional planner.4. consider alternate days and times for your ceremonywhen it comes to your venue, one of the biggest factors that will impact your budget is timing, explains kylie carlson, founder of the international academy of wedding &amp; event planning.some venues will offer discounted rates for the off-season. for many, saturday evenings is the peak time so check to see if they have different rates for friday and sundays, as well as daytime weddings.with daytime weddings, you also stand to save big on food and beverage, since lunch entrees are normally priced less than dinner, and guests generally consume less alcohol during the day. another perk of having your wedding on a less popular day or time is that it will weed out any guests who arent willing to go the extra mile for your big day, woodruff says.5. shop outside the box for your dressits no secret that wedding dresses can be incredibly expensive, so pre-owned is often the way to go, explains smart shopping expert, trae bodge. after all, it was only worn once, she says. then, after the big day, you can sell your dress again using a site like preownedweddingdresses.com.another option is opening up your search to general formal wear. there are gorgeous white gowns to be had that may not immediately be branded as wedding dresses. once you take bridal gown out of equation, the price decreases, bodge says.splurge when you want to, and be smart with money savedof course all this isnt to say that you cant treat yourself on your big day. there are some things many couples find to be worth the investment, like photography. thats where bitterman is spending the majority of her wedding budget, and interestingly, its one of the areas where the everquote survey showed people wish theyd spend more.and remember: any money you dont spend on your wedding can be used however you like  you can pop those funds into a retirement plan, a 529 college savings plan or something else thats going to benefit you and your partner. home improvements. thats what were saving for, bitterman says. its not glamorous, but its something we need more than we need a chocolate fountain.with kathryn tugglemore money hacksthe one move you can make to improve your wealth and healthhow a do-not-buy list can save you hundreds of dollars13 easy ways to save moneyhow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

if you want a great marriage, forget about living happily ever after.couples with the strongest bonds embrace conflict and focus on growth instead of happiness, according to nate bagley, creator of \"the loveumentary\" podcast.conflict is a sign that youre in a great marriage, because conflict is the ultimate opportunity for growth, bagley tells nbc news better.many people think conflict in their marriage is a sign that something is wrong, but as far as bagley is concerned, its just the opposite.every couple has conflict. learning to handle it with grace and kindness is an art form, and its a skill. but just because you have conflict doesnt mean theres something wrong with the relationship, bagley says. it means there is something right.if youre focused on happiness, youre missing the pointbailey recalls a quote he saw on social media that upset him: you deserve to be with somebody who makes you happy. somebody who doesnt complicate your life. somebody who wont hurt you.it super annoyed me, he says, because if were real honest, life just isnt always easy, and if your goal is to just be with somebody who doesnt complicate your life and who makes you happy all the time, youre never going to find anybody, he says.if youre in an abusive relationship, or a relationship that has grown toxic for some reason, then you should leave, bagley says. but most of the time, he says, people are in great relationships  they are just going through a rough patch. he says they usually just need to improve their communication.bagley knows from experience. he met his wife, angilyn in 2015 at a singles event in salt lake city. she winked at him from across the dance floor, he recalls, and a year later, they were married. but marriage turned out to be a bigger challenge than he anticipated.i think one of our biggest challenges, especially early on in our marriage, was learning to manage anxiety, bagley says.his wife would occasionally suffer from bouts of anxiety. she just needed some alone time to unwind, bagley recalls, but he interpreted her anxiety as a failure on his part.if i cant keep my wife happy, like, thats my job, you know? and so id start to try and fix it.he prodded her constantly, he says, demanding to know what was wrong.and it would just send her into an anxiety spiral where now she feels guilty about making me feel anxious, so that makes her feel even more anxious, and then me poking and prodding makes her feel even more guilty and more anxious, and it just turned into this  downward spiral, he says.bagley says he eventually realized it was not his job to solve his wifes problems.its my job to manage my own anxiety and my own stress, and when she was feeling anxious, i had to let her be responsible for her own thoughts and emotions and actions, he says.the couple worked out a plan. whenever his wife feels anxious now, bagley simply asks: is there anything you need? if she says she just needs to be alone, he respects her wishes, he says.i can go take some deep breaths somewhere else and i can manage my own anxiety and i can say, this isnt about me  shell come talk to me when shes ready, and it doesnt escalate into this huge, unmanageable, week-long drama fest, says bagley.stop trying to make your partner happyif you want to create growth in your relationship, says bagley, stop trying to please your partner.i feel like pleasing your partner is doing whatever you can to make sure theyre happy  that they dont have to face things that are uncomfortable, he says.bagley says his marriage forced him to see that he isnt as patient as he thought.when i got married, i was like oh, man, im going to be such a great husband, im so patient and understanding, ive been working on this for so long. then my wifes late and im like oh, my gosh, lets go! he says.they worked through the issue, he says, and now she is better about being on time, and he is more patient.i think one of the best things you can do in a partnership is to challenge the other person to be their best self, bagley says.be clear on what you wantif you want to have a growth-centered relationship, you need clarity on what you want, according to bagley.you need to know what kind of marriage you want, he says. most people dont think about that.talk about the values, experiences and goals you want to create as a couple, and the life you want to create together, he says. if you are having problems, dont assume your partner is to blame, he adds. even if your partner is misbehaving, ask yourself what youve done in the past to discourage the behavior. if you havent confronted them, he says, you need to start.if youre both sitting around and waiting for each other to make the change to improve the relationship, youre going to be waiting a long time, says bagley. you need to take 100 percent responsibility for the relationship that youve created.growth is about the habits and rituals you createcreating growth in your relationship is about making opportunities to communicate, bagley says.i think its all about the habits and rituals you create, he says.maybe you and your partner have a date night or go on a walk together once a week. these types of rituals are a perfect opportunity to have peaceful discussions about your relationship, says bagley.maybe its every sunday night youre laying in bed together, and you cuddle and you have the hey, tell me four things you loved about this week  four things that you loved about me [talk]. and then you swap back and forth, he says.there is always opportunity for you to get betteryour marriage is never going to be perfect, says bagley, but there is always room for growth. work on being a little more patient, a little more kind, and a little more self aware, he says.theres always going to be a chance for you to get better, says bagley. so that means theres an infinite amount of goodness that can come from your relationship. it means my relationship can get better and better every single day, every single week, every single month of my entire life. if i can be married to this woman until i die, that means the last day of my life can be the very best day of my life. its about me making that choice.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimehow the simple act of holding hands brought this couple closer than everwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when i first heard a friend use the word hangry several years ago with a group of friends, i marveled at its accuracy. the portmanteau, a combination of hungry and angry, perfectly described the present disposition of our buddy ryan, who was storming ahead of the group, desperately searching for a late night place to eat. wed just gotten out of a long movie, and ryan hadnt eaten since lunch 10 hours ago  a fact he kept repeating to us. he was irritable, impatient and annoyed by our leisurely pace.since then i use the word hangry all the time (i experience hanger a fair share, myself, to be honest) but ive long questioned its scientific authenticity. is hanger a valid phenomenon? can the physical presence of hunger actually affect our brains and thus our mood, perceptions and reactions? we consulted experts to unpack the fascinating science behind hanger, which is indeed, a real thing.hunger turns up the dial on angerwhile it does seem like a silly colloquial term, hanger has come about to describe this experience weve all had, says dr. kristin lindquist, assistant professor in the department of psychology and neuroscience at the university of north carolina, chapel hill and co-author of the recent study feeling hangry? when hunger is conceptualized as emotion.[my colleagues and i] are interested in this phenomenon because we study emotions and what the more basic processes are in the brain that contribute to emotions. there does seem to be a physiological and corresponding psychological shift when were hungry, she tells nbc news better.through a series of tests, dr. lindquist and her team concluded that when hungry, people are more likely to be in a negative mindset than those who are sated. one of the tests put participants in slightly annoying situations  like being faced with a computer malfunction and having to start a tedious task over. the empty-stomached participants were overtly peeved, and later, when given an evaluation of the research assistants performance were much likely to give negative feedback, saying that the research assistant had been judgmental towards them, lindquist says, suggesting that hunger turns up the dial on your anger in the face of a frustrating experience.when homeostasis is disrupted, our brain sends signals of a problemwhy does this happen? in part it comes down to interference with the bodys homeostasis, or the bodys sense of equilibrium, that hunger creates.hunger as a state actually causes a lot of shifts in hormones, brain processes and the peripheral nervous system that are comparable to what we see in anger, fear and sadness, explains lindquist. the reason we have emotions in the first place is to help our bodies maintain homeostasis. your brain is always trying to monitor the body and make sure youre in homeostasis and if youre not, it sends a signal to the body that we have to shift some things. that shift out of homeostasis into this state [of needing food] is experienced as negative, [triggering] cascades of hormones like cortisol, fight or flight responses, and so on. ultimately your brain is sending a signal to your body that things are not good and need to be figured out.when our brains are deprived of glucose, we cant filter our emotions as wellwe know glucose states are low when people are hungry, and that the brain requires glucose and doesnt function properly in low glucose states, says dr. veronica santini, a clinical assistant professor, neurology and neurological sciences at stanford health care. the part of our brains associated with hunger, fear, anxiety and anger is called the limbic system. it starts automatic responses we have before they even come to consciousness in the higher brain area, which takes information from the limbic system and the environment and then modulates these primitive responses. this is why were not walking around yelling at everybody. but if you have low glucose levels, it means higher brain functions are not working as well as they could be, so there may be a breakdown in those higher brain functions that help us modulate primitive responses.essentially, its not just our bodies that run on food, its our brains, and when we dont have that critical glucose at the needed levels, mechanisms of self-control over aggression break down, dr. santini says, adding: one study done in 2014 showed that aggression against your spouse increased when glucose levels were low.so, when youre hangry, youre not just more prone to snap at somebody because youre hungry on a physical level, youre actually hungry on a cerebral level, and the deprivation is causing your reactive filters to blur if not shut down completely.what should you eat when youre hangry?all experts consulted for this article agree that the best way to treat hanger is, quite obviously, to eat something  but be selective if possible.if you have the option to eat, eat something high in glucose because it is broken quickly down into atp, the type of glucose that provides fuel base for the brain, says matt johnson, an associate dean of undergraduate programs at hult international business school who teaches psychology and neuroscience-related electives. go for things like grains, berries and cereals. but food of any kind will help subside hanger.tune into your emotions if snacking isnt an optionif youre working a long shift or in any other situation where grabbing a snack  just isnt possible, but you feel the hanger setting in, try to bring awareness to your emotions.we had [hungry] participants in our study think about emotions and write a story about them, says dr. lindquist. the idea being that when you focus internally you may be less likely to allow the effects of hanger to unfold. [this act of introspection] nullified the effects of hanger.so, in a real life situation, what you may want to do when you feel your hanger flare up is ask yourself if youre hungry (you may not actually know), and if the answer is yes, consider your state of irritability as a possible result of this need for nourishment.you should also do your best to eat regular meals and snacks no matter how busy you are to prevent hanger. santini underscores that the human body likes structure and when things send it into disequilibrium we may feel it physically but also emotionally.you may feel hangry before you feel hungrysome, like santini herself, feel the negative mood effect of hunger before they feel the physical sensation of hunger.i dont get a rumbling in my stomach or stomach pains when im hungry; instead, i notice my mood has changed, says santini. some people may feel things physically more and some may feel them more emotionally. too often we separate physical symptoms and moods when in reality they are one and the same. the mind and body are one, so start to listen to your body and understand that hey, i may not be anxious right now but very fatigued, or i may not actually be angry, but very hungry. i really think its important to start to understand what our body is signaling to us  and how.more \"this is your brain on\"what the beach does to your brain your brain on a dietsmiling can trick your brain into happiness (and boost your health)your brain on prayer and meditiationwhy some songs make us crywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

do you toss and turn sunday nights, only to wake up super stressed on mondays? you arent alone. i usually have trouble sleeping on sunday nights, admits maxine resnick, a brooklyn, ny-based real estate agent. im looking at the expanse of the week and will sometimes feel like there are so many things that need to get done  not just at work but with the kids and the house, that i have no idea how i will make it all happen.stress-y sundays that turn into messy mondays are a for-real thing. we call sunday anxiety or depression the sunday night blues, says kathleen hall, ceo of the stress institute and mindful living network. you had off for the weekend, unplugged, relaxed and had fun. by sunday night, you begin to get anxious about returning to your to-do list at the office, office politics, your commute and responsibilities. you can experience a negative stress response as you get anxious or depressed about returning to work, she says.the monday campaigns, a non-profit public health initiative associated with johns hopkins, columbia and syracuse universities, conducted a web survey of over 1000 respondents to gauge the impact of monday stress. peggy neu, president of the monday campaigns, board member and graduate of the nalanda institute for contemplative science, says money was the chief agitator (41 percent), followed by work (32 percent), relationships (27 percent), emotional problems (24 percent) and health (16 percent).the sunday blues hit women harderthe survey revealed that women were almost twice as likely to dread mondays than men, while men were almost twice more likely to say mondays were no different to them than any other day of the week.like resnick, neu says the survey showed women were far more likely to say they felt overwhelmed by everything that had to get done at the beginning of the week, (24 percent of women vs. 10 percent of men), and the anticipation of problems to deal with in the week ahead (19 percent of women vs. 13 percent of men).hall says this could be because women and men deal with stress quite differently. women try to get support and therapy to lower their anxiety and find a solution to their stressors. they want to share their stress experience with others for support, says hall. men want to escape when experiencing stress. they compartmentalize, and dont want to discuss their feelings because this can show a sign of their weakness. they also have a difficult time asking for help or therapy.men and women handle stress differentlythe difference in how men and women handle stress is even evident when looking at their brains. according to a study from the ucla school of nursing, the part of the brain that helps to manage stress, heart rate and blood pressure looks quite different for each gender.another study hall mentioned from duke university found mental stress can be more taxing on womens hearts than mens. health and stress are inextricably linked: chronic stress increases your risk of most physical diseases including heart disease, hypertension, cancer, insomnia, diabetes, stroke, and premature aging. it also increases your risk for psychological disorders such as depression, anxiety and other stress disorders, says hall. your brain is signaled to produce cortisol (a stress hormone), which increases you heart rate, blood pressure and blood sugar. it makes you gain weight, because it can cause stress related eating habits while also increasing the amount of fat cells in your body, she says.monday can be seen as a fresh startwhere men and women meet closer to the middle is monday: the survey found both 33 percent of men and 27 percent of women view mondays as a fresh start. the monday campaigns, in conjunction with the department of integrative health programs at nyu langone and the johns hopkins bloomberg school of public health, created a program called destress monday to help people meet the beginning of the week in a more positive, less stressful frame of mind. their monday resolutions were designed to help alleviate stress by reframing the miserable monday mindset into a hard reset instead of the start of yet another week to slog through.instead of making resolutions on new years day, your birthday, anniversary or a single day of significance to you, a more effective approach is a recommit strategy that capitalizes on the natural momentum of the weekly cycle, says neu.instead of choking on dread, neu recommends using each monday to:set realistic goals.break each goal into small, manageable steps.make a weekly plan and write it down to commit.share your goals with others for support.hit the reset button on monday if you lapse and start again.to alleviate the sunday blues, hall recommends what she calls her s.e.l.f. care sunday night plan:serenity. practice some form of relaxation through meditation, or peaceful guided imagery to help guide you into a healing, deep sleep.exercise. take long walks, do yoga or any form of exercise  it reduces stress hormone production and helps the brain and body produce relaxing hormones, says hall.love. express love and gratitude for your life, your family, your dog or your garden. as weve previously reported, gratitude relaxes your mind and reduces stress.food. for sunday dinner, eat foods rich in b6 such as sweet potatoes, rice, salmon, turkey or bananas to help promote relaxation. dairy products such as yogurt, milk or ice cream calm the mind and body. pass on food and drink known to increase anxiety, such as caffeine, alcohol, and fatty foods.after all, an ice cream is kind of the perfect way to end a weekend.more stress busting tipshow to manage stress so that it doesnt hurt your healthwhat is sophrology, the latest stress-busting mindfulness trend?stressed? heres how to tap into a zen feeling (almost) instantlyhow to bounce back from headline stress disorderwhy the simple act of being in nature helps you de-stresswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

how many times have warm summer days beckoned you to abandon the office  to call in sick, take a mental health day and high tail it to the park or the beach? this time of year, the temptation to slack at work is real. those colleagues you see taking extra long lunches to soak up that sun arent mirages. and joining them can be very, very tempting.but (and you knew there was a but coming, didnt you?) summer slacking can be a career killer. if you have your eyes on a promotion, raise or any type of career advancement, the warm months arent the ones to lay low  rather, theyre one of the best times to go above and beyond in your role, and show your bosses what youre really made of.its okay to enjoy the slower summer months, says ishviene arora, co-founder and coo at vested, a financial services communications agency. the way to do it is to work smarter, not harder. for example, if you work in an industry that slows down during the summer, use that down time to focus on out-of-the-box initiatives that your job may not ordinarily allow time for.you have an opportunity to get more visibility when you go the extra mile, agrees addie swartz, ceo of reachire, a company that works with organizations to promote a gender diverse workforce and bring women back to work after a career break. during the summer, more people than usual will be out on vacation or out for long weekends. if youre able to help solve a crisis when others are checked out, it can make a difference, swartz says.how to make it happen:1. beat your deadlines, and over-communicateif youre working on a project with a deadline, get it competed early, swartz recommends. with people frequently out on vacation during the summer, staying ahead of things can ensure there are no delays in the approvals or review process. also, when a project is completed, its best to over-communicate so that everyone (including those who may be covering for someone whos out of office) is on the same page. sending that last email on a summer friday letting everyone know where things stand shows commitment and dedication, she says.2. offer to support a colleague or supervisorif someone in my company came to me and said, i know youre going to be away for a week, can i do the following three things for you? i would love it, swartz says. helping a colleague is not only a nice thing to do, it can also enable you to get some extra credit for a job well done, and to learn an additional skill. additionally, this is something that isnt limited to skilled workers even if youre just starting your career, you can offer to help out your managers, or coach one of your companys interns.3. suggest ways to be more productive that also allow you to enjoy the summerfeeling trapped in the office but have a meeting coming up? suggest an outdoor huddle or a meeting that takes place on a walk or a run, swartz says. a different setting can inspire creativity. youre leveraging the summer, but also doing something that has a positive impact on company culture and your work experience. another option would be to suggest an outdoor potluck lunch with your colleagues or company. you can be team-building while also capturing the spirit of summertime.4.) dont wait for projects to come to yoube proactive, and dont wait for someone to bring you new projects on a silver tray, explains career expert gabriel shaoolian. remember its about working hard, not just getting by. promotions come to those who earn them, he says. if your office offers summer fridays, you can express to your manager that youre happy to work certain friday afternoons to help your team or another team complete a task or project. just make sure you still leave yourself with enough down-time of your own.5.) dont let the basics slidefinally, during the summer months, it can be tempting to come in late (especially if your boss is out of town), or come in already dressed for the beach. dont. dressing for the position you want, not the one that you have, is key in advancing, says heather monahan, founder of #bossinheels and author of confidence creator. you want everyone to see you as ready for that next position, so looking the part and acting it are necessary. this also means arriving to work early, and showing up for meetings on time and prepared, just as you would any other time of year.with kathryn tuggletake your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

it is only 11:00 am as im writing this, but i want to go out. not just outside (although that would be nice, too), but out out. like to a restaurant patio, or a bustling outdoor bar, or a sun-soaked beach, or a quaint downtown shopping center.thats what warm weather does to me. a little bit of sun and a 70-degree day does wonders for me, emotionally speaking  financially, however, it tends to be my downfall. when its cold outside, im likely to burrow under warm blankets and not leave my apartment or spend money on really anything for days on end  which, luckily, is my wallets favorite thing for me to do.during the summer, however, i start dropping cash like nobodys business. $60 for a day pass to the beach? great! $15 champagne-based cocktails? what a steal! an impromptu weekend at a quaint (read: expensive-as-all-get-out) new england beach town? just call me the monopoly man! im game to spend on pretty much anything as long as it is warm and fun. except for the fact that i cant  and definitely shouldnt pretend like i can  afford to be spending like this.after a long, cold winter, it is hard to remember that your thoughtful, handcrafted, artisanal budget is still very much applicable even when the weather is nice. you still have to adhere to your financial plan in the summer months, when it feels way harder to do so. but luckily, there are a few things you can do to prep your financial life for summer in order to allow for a little extra wiggle room for all of those fun-but-pricey activities. here are the five best things you can do for yourself, financially, before the 4th of july rolls around.1. assess your financial situationthis is a good thing to do often (monthly, at the very least), but it is always worth mentioning. take stock of your financial life; check your credit score, update your budget, write out your debts and expenses and income in a way that makes sense to you. (power to you if youre a microsoft excel queen  but writing all of your important numbers out on a scrap of notebook paper is great, too, if that works for you.) whens the last time you checked your credit report? if you havent given yourself a thorough financial checkup in a while, make sure you do before we get deep into summer.personal finance blogger and expert desirae odjick says checking in with your finances should be a regular practice. when all is well, checking your credit score should be fairly boring, but if there is a big move in either direction, good or bad, its a sign that you need to look more closely at your credit report to figure out why your score drastically improved or declined, she told me. its much better to catch these things early and handle them than to wait until you need a car loan and get denied because of a mistake on your credit report!knowing where you stand is key in figuring out how to enjoy your summer in a way that is practical and affordable for you.2. knock out any small debts you can to increase your net worthanother important number to check up on this summer is your net worth. its an important metric to know, because it really gives you a holistic view of your financial life, instead of just focusing on your debt or your savings, says odjick. over time, the goal is to see your net worth go up, which could mean paying down your debt, saving more money, or having your investments go up in value. being able to capture all that progress in a single number makes it much easier to see how youre doing overall, instead of getting bogged down in the details.if you want to see your net worth increase this summer (or maybe just get up to a solid zero), work on paying down debt. im not going to try and tell you to pay off your mortgage or your ridiculous student loan debt before the 4th  but if you have a smaller debt, like a few hundred on your credit card from an emergency a few months ago, pay it off now so you arent carrying unnecessary credit card debt with you through the summer. for example, i had just under $1,000 left on a bill for my dogs emergency surgery last fall. i have until october 2018 to pay it off interest-free, so ive been taking my time with it and favoring other things in my financial life, thinking eh, as long as it is paid off before october, were good!but last month, i decided to just be done with it  i didnt want to go into summer carrying that debt anymore, and all i had to do was prioritize the debt over my fun expenses for the last couple of months so i could knock that debt out for good. now, im entering into summer credit card debt-free, so i feel like i have more freedom to spend on things i want to without feeling guilty that im not putting money towards my debt  and my net worth is thanking me for it, too.3. actually plan and budget per activityimpromptu anything is basically your budgets worst enemy. and im not saying that you should live a life entirely void of spontaneity, but things that are at least very loosely planned-for tend the be the ones that prevent you from going overboard. having guidelines keeps us from meandering from $400 is an appropriate amount to spend on this weekend trip! to uh oh, just charged a cool thousand on my credit card! but whatever, im on vacation!my boyfriend and i remedy our spontaneous spending urges by having a plan of action ready for certain activities. on our refrigerator, we have a running list of fun things wed like to do this summer. it includes things like restaurants and ice cream shops wed like to try, trails to walk and hike, local towns wed like to take day trips or overnight trips to, concerts and events wed like to attend, etc. next to each item on the list, we wrote a number  an estimate of how much the particular activity will cost. since we have such a shapeshifting budget that ebbs and flows depending on my freelance work and other household/surprise expenses, this allows us to still spontaneously decide which activity wed like to do when we have a free afternoon or weekend together, but make sure it fits in with the current state of our budget.4. plan, budget, and save for the non-fun summer expenses as wellat the very least, this helps make extra room for the things you want to spend on. summer comes along with a few less-than-desirable expenses (like the cost of blasting your a/c unit nonstop, or the five-dozen weddings you have to attend and purchase gifts for). over the next few weeks, see where you can mindfully cut back on spending and put little chunks of money into a fund specifically for your ughhh extras this summer, so when the time comes to actually shell out for them, you can dip into your ughhh fund to pay for them instead of your fun-fund.5. tune up everything you let go during the cold seasonif youre anything like me (and i hope im not alone), your car hasnt been washed in months. the windows in your home are dirty because you were too cold to open them up to thoroughly wash them. you fell into a pattern of digging your car out of the snow, then throwing your shovel in the front hall closet with total abandon, not worrying about what kind of dirt and debris was getting flung onto your nice floors.im simply less motivated to thoroughly clean and care for everything in the winter. (i actually know im not alone here  the concept of spring cleaning exists for a reason. people finally come out of cleaning-and-maintenance hibernation when the weather warms up!) giving a little extra attention to all of your stuff will allow you to enter into summer without worrying about that oil change and tire rotation your car desperately needs, or the power wash your house deserves. additionally, all of this necessary maintenance come with an attached expense, so knocking that out before summer frees up your extra income for all of the things you actually want to enjoy.simple money hacks thatll help you savethe 2-minute rule i use to effortlessly manage my money5 apps that can make your financial life easier todaymoney hacks thatll help you save (and keep you safe)how to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when you think of playing, some memories from childhood most likely come to mind: digging for dinosaur bones in the sandbox, a game of tag at recess, spending hours with your toy of choice (whether it was a barbie doll, a hot wheels car or a pile of legos).but can you remember the last time you played?if you cant, then you may be missing out on an important way to give your physical and mental health a boost.theres a reason why we associate playtime with young children: free play is how kids discover the world and how it works. play is essential as they grow, as it helps them develop language, vocabulary, social-cognitive, collaboration and turn-taking skills along with their emotional intelligence, catherine tamis-lemonda, professor of developmental psychology at new york university, tells nbc news better. children that arent allowed to play experience a loss of self-motivation and they run the risk of burn-out.tamis-lemonda explains that play is also a great learning tool for children. there have been experiments measuring the success of teaching children with play as a tool versus teaching them in ways devoid of play,\" she says. \"they all found that children learn more and retain information better when theres play involved.weve come to accept that play as an important part of a healthy childs development, but who says they have a lien on plays advantages? definitely not science. studies and research show that adults, too, have a lot to gain from the act of playing.why is play good for you as an adult?the most obvious benefit comes from play that involves physical activity. when done frequently, it strengthens your heart, boosts your lung function and lowers your risk of developing coronary heart disease. not only that, physical play like sports and exercise, also reduce your stress hormones (e.g cortisol and adrenaline) and trigger the release of endorphins  your feel-good hormones  which elevates your mood and helps you relax after a stressful day.laughter, which is present in many kinds of playful activities, releases those same feel-good hormones. the act of simply laughing with others will also foster a sense of camaraderie and strengthen your relationships, too.at work, play increases your productivity levels and makes you more creative. in fact, in their book \"welcome to your childs brain: how the mind grows from conception to college,\" dr. sam wang and dr. sandra aamodt discuss how play contributes to successful problem solving, not just at work, but in your personal life, too. \"work in adult life is often most effective when it resembles play. indeed, total immersion in an activity often indicates that the activity is intensely enjoyable; this is the concept of flow, or what athletes call being in the zone,\" they wrote. \"flow occurs during active experiences that require concentration but are also highly practiced, where the goals and boundaries are clear but leave room for creativity. this describes many adult hobbies, from skiing to music, as well as careers like surgery and computer programming.\"finally, as you age, play (especially the social and group kinds) facilitates happiness, wards off depression, improves cognitive health and lowers your risk of developing age-related diseases like dementia.what exactly counts as play?so youre convinced that you could benefit from adding play back into your weekly routine. but what exactly does play look like for adults?think of play as more of a mental approach to activities, not necessarily the particular activities themselves. in fact, you dont really need to worry about if an activity constitutes as play or not, as long as you adopt a playful mindset and of course, have fun, while youre partaking. it could be taking part in your favorite sport, playing a board game with your family, solving sudoku puzzles on the commute to work, swimming with friends, taking an exercise class or cooking a new recipe.what feels like play to you may not to the next person, and thats okay. (a friend may love playing volleyball at the beach, while you, on the other hand, see it as self-inflicted torture.) the definition of play connotes voluntariness and vulnerability. its anything you feel like doing without being made or forced to, explains play expert, creative strategist and toy designer yesim kunter. kunter develops play experiences and applies play philosophy to spaces, environments and communities, she also trains organizations to leverage creativity and innovation through play workshops. being happy, relaxed, free, feeling like time is flowing, not constantly checking your watch  those things signify that you are in play mode.clinical psychologist and chief of the division of psychology at ellis hospital, dr. rudy nydegger, says there are two basic tenets of play. first, it is something that we do for recreation that is purely for enjoyment and/or entertainment  it is something we do just for fun,\" he says. \"second, it is something that is intrinsically motivating. in other words it is something that we want to do and is not something we need to be coerced or bribed into doing. it is voluntary; we do it just because we want to.how to incorporate play into your lifeyou can either carve out a special time for play, such as planning a weekend activity with friends, finishing a crossword puzzle every night before bed or heading out for daily morning runs. or you can also decide to incorporate play into regular tasks that are already on your to-do list: like doodling while youre on a conference call at work or singing and dancing in the shower or while you clean.because most adults spend the bulk of their waking hours at the office, making sure you experience some type of play there is crucial. a lot of offices are sterile and unplayful, so it could be simple and subtle playful things like using colorful pens on your tables or having posters with nice inspirational quotes on your desk wall, kunter explains. and if your office allows it, playing a board game for just 15 minutes with your colleagues is a great way to play and refresh yourself during office hours.here are five ways kunter says you can easily incorporate play into your office space:keep simple games, like jenga, in your office. you can play solo or invite your colleagues to join you during breaks.have colorful pens, pencils, crayons and large paper on the walls, where you and other people can freely draw or write.put up posters or quotes of the day with humorous sayings or entertaining cartoons.keep playful objects like a spinning top or a crystal prism on your desk to relax your mind, keep your hands busy during conference calls and reignite creativity.if your office is so austere that none of the other suggestions will fly, take a break from your work throughout the day to play with juxtapositions, metaphors and analogies in your mind.tamis-lemonda advises us to take a page out of a childrens book. thats whats really cool about children, they dont worry about the future, they dont check things off their to-do lists, she explains. they live in the moment. there doesnt have to be a final goal and they play for the sake of play. the truth is, play is being joyfully immersed in the moment, and as adults, we rarely do that.in a way, it is an active form of mindfulness, which is widely recommended and advocates being present and in the moment. mindfulness has been proven to alleviate anxiety and depression. studies also suggest that it can help you manage stress better and maintain a healthy weight.so how often should we play? the short answer is every day. it differs from person to person, kunter says. having a playful mind is the most important thing, but implementing play-time into your daily routine will strengthen your ability to cope with stress and bring joy into your life.more ways to boost your mental healthhow to worry betterstressed? heres how to tap into a zen feeling almost instantlyhow to take a mental health daysmiling can trick your brain into happiness  and boost your healthwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

this time of year all many of us can think about is keeping cool. but escaping the searing heat that blankets entire swathes of the country comes at a cost. in my 130 year old victorian, summer utility bills are stratospheric. but where does a person turn for help making decisions about cooling off when it seems like everyone has something to sell? roofs, windows, air conditioning systems, insulation  companies making and selling these products all have their claims about cooling and energy savings. and how do you separate fact from myth when it comes to adages about keeping a home cool and keeping a lid on the utility bill?fortunately a couple of experts weighed in for nbc better with some tips for how you can keep cool and carry on this summer. lauren urbanek is a senior program advocate, center for energy efficiency standards, climate &amp; clean energy program at the natural resources defense council. and robert daguillard is a spokesperson for the u.s. environmental protection agency. they helped us break down some cooling essentials.start with your windowsit sounds basic, urbanek said, but if sun comes in through your windows its going to make your house warm. using things like window coverings to their full advantage in the middle of the day [can] keep your house cooler by keeping that sunlight from coming in, particularly if you are gone during day, and in rooms that face west or south.anybody elses grandma do that back before air conditioning was ubiquitous? she knew what was what.so whats best for window covering? looking for a product like a thermal curtain thats designed for that purpose is generally a pretty safe bet, urbanek said. the idea is to keep the light and heat from coming through. that could even mean having a thicker curtain vs. something sheer. of course there are also thermal shades (we use those on south and west facing windows and they make a dramatic difference), actual blackout curtains, even interior shutters.yeah, you might be giving up light and a view, but isnt it nice to be cool?hot air is likely coming in from everywhereif you were to add up all the little cracks and places in your house where warm air gets in, the average house would have a hole the size of a basketball, urbanek said. if you had a basketball sized hole in your wall youd take care of it right away. what people often dont know, she said, is how many places you can have hot air coming in: think around windows, door frames, and crawl spaces, even around recessed lights.if you were to add up all the little cracks and places in your house where warm air gets in, the average house would have a hole the size of a basketball.a great resource for finding all those little culprits, she said, is your local utility company. many can provide a home energy audit and some even offer rebates if you take their advice. you get a professional to do some diagnostic testing and they will give you a list, generally with information about what makes the most sense to invest in, she said. (dont wait; i called mine weeks ago and the soonest they could come is mid-august.)insulation is key year-roundall those beautiful photos you can find on pinterest of glorious exposed rafters notwithstanding, insulation is a must, urbankek said. she lives in a century-old house herself, and although its not something fun to spend money on  even as somebody who knew this was the right thing, adding insulation to the walls and attic was one of her first priorities. its not as fun as new countertop but it will save you money and make you more comfortable in your house.how exactly does insulation work? the way thermodynamics work is heat flows from a hotter place to a cooler place, urbanek explained. not having insulation means heat is seeping into your house and your air conditioner is having to work a lot harder.or, to use the words of the insulation contractor who came to our house to take thermal images, heat is screaming in through your ceiling.when and how to run your air conditionerits an age old debate: is it better to leave your air running all day so the house stays cool and it doesnt have to work so hard to get back down to a comfy temperature? or should you set your thermostat a few degrees higher when youre not home?its all about equilibrium, urbanek said. heat is going to flow from a hotter environment to a cooler one. so in this case the heat will want to come from outside into your nice cool house. if you set your thermostat higher so its warmer in day theres going to be less air flow. if its 85 out and you set it to 65, the air conditioner has to work harder. now if you set it to 78 during the day and set it back [lower] when you get home it may have to work a little harder and run longer ... but at the same time its not going to be running all day.this also speaks to importance of a programmable thermostat, she said. that allows you to set your temperatures and forget about it. this is another area to check with your utility company to see if they have thermostat rebates, she said. of course whats really nice is a wifi thermostat you can control with your phone so you can cool your house before you get back home.the same rule of thumb applies with window unit air conditioners, urbanek said. turn them off or to a higher temperature while youre gone. ive learned that the hard way when letting a cooling system run too hard for too long (a new mini split in my third floor in a typical kentucky summer) fried the fan motor. (yes, im getting new insulation.)how to shop for an a/c unitwhat if you have a window unit that cant keep up? you may not have a correctly-sized unit for your room, said daguillard. tempted to go big? an oversized air conditioner is actually less effective  and wastes energy at the same time. air conditioners remove both heat and humidity from the air. if the unit is too large, it will cool the room quickly, but only remove some of the humidity. this leaves the room with a damp, clammy feeling.and of course look for an energy star certified air conditioner. they use 10% less energy, and on average, cost $70 per year to run, daguillard said. then be sure the unit is installed correctly. an improperly installed room air conditioner leaks as much air as a 6 square inch hole, increasing energy costs and making your home less comfortable, he said.a better way to beat the heatone of the simplest solutions of all, urbanek said, is to focus more on what the air feels like than the actual temperature. if you have ceiling fans make sure youre using them  and the right way, making sure the direction is set correctly. as youre standing under it looking up, it should be running counterclockwise  it pulls cooler air from ground and blows it back on you. just the air from the fan on your skin can make a room feel ten degrees cooler, she said. and no need to run it if the room is empty, she added. it does nothing but use energy.more savings hackshow to save more money in 2018how a do-not-buy list can save you hundreds of dollars13 easy ways to save moneywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

mike gnitecki, a 33-year-old paramedic in dallas, texas, likes to leave a decent tip when he dines out, always 15 to 20 percent, he says. but hes become frustrated by the call for gratuities in just about every other type of business he enters.the local dry cleaner has a tip jar. i dont think that i should have to tip every time i purchase something, he tells nbc news better.he also doesnt like to feel pressured into tipping a set amount. at the coffee shop this morning, the receipt to sign only had a choice of various percentage amount tip check-boxes without there being a no tip option. i finally just left it blank.have millennials reached a tipping point?gnitecki admits that hes not an expert on millennial behavior and certainly doesnt serve as a defining voice for the some 71 million millennials in the u.s (surely no single person could); but he speaks to the kind of pressures around leaving gratuities that millennials are facing  pressures that may play a role in new data showing that millennials arent tipping as well or as often as older consumers.a new survey by creditcards.com found that u.s millennials (a population the company defined more broadly than most demographists would, as being between ages 18 and 37) are the poorest tippers: 10 percent routinely leave no tip; nearly one in three leaves less than a 15 percent tip and one in six millennials says they regularly choose the lowest preset tipping option, while nearly one in five gives no tip when presented these choices.the average restaurant worker is a millennial, making for quite the paradoxthese results may be surprising to millennials (they certainly were to me, an older millennial), for though were bogged down in debt, we tend to be savvy in our understanding of how meaningful tips are in the restaurant business, in part because so many of us have been in or presently belong to this workforce. the bureau of labor and statistics identifies the median age of people working in food services and drinking establishments as 29.1.why would we be so knowingly disrespectful to our peers, and work against the system we very well may depend on ourselves?admittedly, i was doubting the credibility of this creditcards.com survey, wondering if perhaps the factoring in of people as young as 18 had led to a misrepresented millennial quotient, but then i stumbled upon new research from the social polling and opinion platform the tylt, which found that almost 40 percent of millennials believe #tippingisoptional and that nearly half want to #bantipping.theres resentment not toward servers, but towards the systemthis second poll, which consulted the same amount of people as the creditcards.com survey (1,000 adults) suggests that were seeing some disdain toward the traditional tipping model among millennials, and a strong desire for restaurants to implement a more transparent system, where staff doesnt depend on an optional gratuity to earn a living wage.i definitely see that millennials want this [tipping] system to go, says daniel levine, trends expert and director of trends consultancy firm the avant-guide institute. millennials as a generation are more socially conscious and they have strong ideas about fairness. they dont want to see somebodys wage rely on the customers whim.dining out without breaking the bank: a balancing actis this millennial trend toward rejecting the pay model of tipping actually causing them to opt out of tipping when in restaurants? probably not, as that would contradict their ethical rationale. it is more likely that millennials are tipping less than their elders because, firstly, they go out to eat out more than older generations and cant afford to be dishing out 20 percent tips every time.millennials are pretty conservative and cautious with their money and i can see where the average millennial would be pretty thoughtful in how they would do their tipping and plan for it when theyre about to go out, says matt schulz, senior industry analyst at creditcards.com. adding 20 percent on top of everything you get makes for a much more expensive night, so it calls for a bit of a balancing act.the quick-serve surgeanother important factor here is that millennials are frequenting quick-serve restaurants where you pay for your food at the counter and take a tray to a table (or just head on out the door with it). in this environment, there isnt an employee waiting on you and so tipping can feel especially optional.people tip far less in quick-serve type places than at a regular restaurant where this is a wait service, says levine. and if theyre getting items to go, they may [skip] tipping because they think, why should i tip for a service that im already paying for? theres also this plethora of tip jars everywhere and [millennials] tend to roll their eyes at that.food on demand takes time and work  not just from the delivery personbut millennials may want to stop rolling their eyes and start opening them to just how much work goes on behind the scenes when theyre picking up to go, especially if theyre using an on-demand ordering service.some restaurant workers roles now include many duties that they did not include years ago, due to the rise of internet-based delivery services, says clare levijoki, a former restaurant host. restaurant patrons are often not aware of this.as a restaurant hostess in 2016, for example, i was responsible for handling everything related to incoming orders from grubhub, eatstreet and other delivery services, levijoki explains. i was responsible for putting the orders from phone and internet into the kitchen, collecting them from the kitchen upon completion, checking to see that the outgoing orders contained all the correct items, and making sure they were given to the correct delivery driver along with the correct paperwork telling the driver where to go and listing what his tip would be. these were my responsibilities in addition to seating people and managing the floor. on most evenings, our restaurant received more delivery orders than we did in-person patrons. managing internet orders was in itself essentially a full-time job with no opportunity for tipping, since its duties involved only interfacing with delivery drivers, not with customers directly.it is for this problem (and the research showing that tipping is not immune to racist and sexist biases) that levijoki advocates for eliminating tipping and raising minimum wage for restaurant workers instead.tipping is here to stay for now, so heres a quick etiquette refresherthere have been some signs of the change in the restaurant industry around tipping protocol particularly around pooling tips and even eliminating tipping altogether; but by and large, the burden of tipping remains on us at the individual, one-on-one level, and we should pay up if we want to be respectful of others.millennials working in a service industry are far more likely to be gracious and give respectable tips, says jacquelyn youst, president of the pennsylvania academy of protocol, an organization that teaches social skills and etiquette. [but in] looking at the whole picture it appears [other millennials] lack the basic social skill of proper tipping protocol. tipping, like any other social skill, is a learned behavior, taught either by a person from an older generation or through life experience. here is yousts tipping 101 checklist:tip your bartender: $1.00 per drinktip your server: 15-20%tip your food delivery person: $4 (average amount)tip hotel housekeeping $2 per night, up to $5 at high-end hoteltip your valet parking person: $2 to $5tip your hair stylist: 15 percenttip your shampoo person at salon: $3-$5.00tip your dog groomer: 15 to 20 percenttip taxi driver: 10-15 percentand when it comes to ride-sharing apps like uber and lyft, its important to note that a five star rating is not a tip. if youre short on cash but had a fine ride-sharing experience  dont show your appreciation with just five stars or a mighty compliment in the app. leave the same 10 to 15 percent tip youd leave with a traditional taxi. advancement in technology should not take away the courteous act of tipping, says youst.money savings hacksthe one move you can make to improve your wealth and healthhow a do-not-buy list can save you hundreds of dollars13 easy ways to save moneyhow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

you should be thin but also curvy. your lips should be full. your skin shouldnt look too made up, yet still be radiant and without visible trace of pores. your eyebrows should be thick yet cleanly defined and your hair should show no evidence that you encounter weather, unless its at the beach. you shouldnt eat that. you shouldnt wear that. you shouldnt give up on looking better. oh, but also please love your body as it is because youre beautiful and perfect! #bodypositive!this is the kind of lopsided messaging that women often receive from the media, including (perhaps most aggressively) social media. were blasted with directives on what beauty  in the most superficial sense of the word  is and how to attain it, no matter how unrealistic, only to be served a mawkish thumbs up from a beauty brand, clothing line or a well-meaning celebrity whose body bears a startling resemblance to barbies.ive been off-and-on obsessing (often negatively) over my appearance since i was 12 years old and now, at 34, i feel only slightly closer to accepting myself as i am, and eager to know: how do i authentically embrace a body positive mindset? how can i really get it in my head that i am  gulp  beautiful without makeup or filters or diets or even praise from anybody else?these are the questions that seline shenoy, podcast host, life coach and author of beauty redefined: how to feel authentically beautiful in todays world has finally answered for herself (and may help answer for others)  after years of shame over her body.less to love: often were taught the slimmer we are, the more we belongas a teenager and a young adult i suffered from major body image issues because i was chubby, shenoy tells nbc news better. i was labeled as being too hefty by the recreational director at a school fashion show tryout, snubbed by dancing instructors at auditions and deserted by trusted friends. all of these incidents left an indelible impression on me and unequivocally taught me that the only way to gain love and acceptance from others and experience a sense of belonging was by being slim and [conventionally] beautiful.these series of rejections pushed shenoy to push herself. in her early twenties, she worked hard with exercise and diet to attain the body type shed been taught was ideal. and when she finally met her goal, she got everything she wanted  or so it seemed, at first.real makeovers need to happen on the insidei began receiving the kind of attention and admiration from the outside world that i had never received before, says shenoy. i relished all the adulation that i was receiving, but there was a big part of me that was absolutely terrified about losing my newfound sense of power. becoming physically attractive, based on social norms, changed my world on the outside, but it did not change an iota about me on the inside. i was still insecure and needy of peoples approval when it came to my physical appearance.the insecurity developed into a full-blown emotional breakdown when shenoy was in her mid-20s. i [then] realized that i needed to shift some beliefs when it came to my self-image and my own capabilities, she says.this is when the real work  the work of feeling beautiful, began. shenoy threw herself into seminars, workshops and sessions with coaches and counselors until she was able to heal past wounds, regain my confidence and use my story and skills to help other girls and women out there who are suffering from the same struggles.how to get comfortable in your own skin: a list of resources and pro tipshow can i or anyone else get to this place of peace and poise with body image? reading shenoys book, which she calls her contribution towards the looming revolution of beauty may be of assistance, as the author explores both her own experience while digging into various research on the loaded subject of feminine appearance; but there are plenty of tips to try.do mirror workeach day, for 40 days, my clients look at themselves in the mirror before bed and thank themselves for all the wins they scored during the day, says christie miller, author, motivational speaker and founder of eattrainwin. they express gratitude for their body and where it carried them that day. and they congratulate themselves on avoiding unhealthy behavior. its a total love fest that builds their self-esteem, confidence and love for their bodies.check out the evolution of beauty standardsi really like buzzfeeds video that show how womens ideal body types changed throughout history, says shenoy. it had a dramatic impact on how i view the standards of beauty because i could see how its been a moving target throughout the history of mankind. i was convinced of the fickleness of our societys expectations of a womans appearances and why its not a reliable measure of our self-worth.marvel at the wonders of your body  and the sensory experiencesheina schochet, a mental health counselor in nyc finds that womens body image issues tend to spike in summer, when were slipping into more revealing clothes, so we should try to focus less on what we want to change, and more on what our bodies can do.think about the things your body does, like making a baby (for moms) or getting through a really challenging workout class, schochet says. [at the beach,] choose to focus on how the sun, sand and surf feel on your skin.unhook your self-worth from your appearancemichele moore a certified coach, relationship expert and founder of marriage mojo encourages women struggling with body issues to connect their self-image to aspects of their identity that arent physical.in essence, i try to normalize their beliefs while also challenging their validity, therefore unhooking or un-linking the idea that ones worth is found in ones outward appearance, moore says. thats not to say that [you] cant or shouldnt work on losing weight or updating their wardrobe, but only that [your] self-image doesnt have to be tied to these things.a three-step plan of attackalegra loewenstein, health coach and author of emotional eating detox: a 21-day inspirational journal to understand your cravings, end overeating, and find freedom from dieting forever finds that negative body image is an epidemic among women today, and recommends the following three steps toward healing:slow down and tap into your body wisdom to learn to love your holistic whole body. \"a simple mindfulness or affirmation practice from meditation to talking kindly to yourself in the mirror [can help].release the bad energy. \"clear out the toxic emotions that cause you to self-sabotage your health goals, which are often stuck from your childhood. this can be done with a program of self-reflection with a partner, professional [and/or] in your own in a journal.make a plan to stay on track. \"your negative emotions will ebb and flow, and having a long-term outlook infused with love for yourself will make it easy to increase [healthy] body image and self-esteem.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

the request came from a former co-worker. his employer (a for-profit business) was hosting an event and needed insights from a local with in-depth knowledge on a topic that i have covered in a weekly column for years. i could sense it coming: i was hoping to pick your brain, he wrote, before asking me to come to their office 30 minutes from my home office. there might be a couple writing assignments in it for me, he said as he wrapped up the email.i replied with some resources and an offer to connect him with a trade organization that could be of help, and  i thought  a friendly bit of advice about that dreaded request: to nix it. and i closed by letting him know im available on a consulting  read: paid  basis if my expertise was further needed. he didnt reply.its such an easy and innocuous request that people throw it out like fishing line. if they drop enough lines, maybe theyll catch something. but what they dont realize is that there may be some unwanted repercussions.when someone needs to say no [to a brain picking request] and they feel uncomfortable or that they cant, you can cause damage to the relationship, said michelle tillis lederman, author of \"the 11 laws of likability.\" and that relationship is more important than any individual question, she added.5 little words that get many professionals hot under the collarbut why? why does the mere phrase get me  and so many others  so worked up? fellow freelancer and entrepreneur kristin luna shares my heated reaction to the request. she has a job thats a dream to many: traveling the world and writing about it. naturally people will contact her to ask her how they too can have that job. and they often phrase it as a brain-picking.being new to a profession or field and trying to gather intel, i feel like asking someone whos been working in that profession for 15 years to divulge all their secrets is the ultimate offense, luna told nbc news better, because youre implying that my time and schooling and building up my career isnt valuable enough to pay for it.luna also provides consulting services in the tourism industry. for someone to ask if they can take me out for five dollar coffee when we charge our clients hundreds of dollars an hour  you wouldnt do that to a lawyer or doctor, she said, so i dont know why theres this disconnect that the same respect shouldnt be shown to other professions. that coffee break, by the way, is a different matter when you work in a more traditional environment, she pointed out. when youre in an office, youre getting paid to be there no matter what, and you can slip out for an hour to take a coffee date, she said. but when youre self employed youre literally losing money when youre not working.a conversation that strikes a chord and hits a nerveand its not just the freelance or consulting world where brain picking requests are a bad idea. when i raised the topic among friends it clearly struck a chord. a lactation consultant gets hit with requests for free help every day. a paralegal is also bombarded. as is a coffee shop owner and a nurse i heard from. and christine vaughn, an event planner in louisville, kentucky, gets frustrated with the barrage of requests for her  free  counsel on planning events.i have worked hard to get where i am and figure it out as i go, she said. i know i am damn good at it and there is a need for my skill set.how to push back when you need tobut telling people no  especially as a woman  is fraught with discomfort. it offends me because i have put a lot of time, money, energy, blood, sweat and tears into what i do and what i know, vaughn added. these are the things i tell myself when i feel guilty for not just sharing all my knowledge.while most men i heard from when i reached out to friends said they didnt mind the request, every woman who responded did. i think its harder for women and its harder to say no and we come across as a b---- if we dont oblige, luna said. thats something i struggle with all the time as an entrepreneur. i really hate that we have to play so delicately in the business space when were female.now were not all just a bunch of scrooges. requests for help from friends are gladly taken. im always happy for the chance to pay forward or pay back the many times ive asked friends for advice that they freely gave. ive been the beneficiary of many generous people in my career and my life and am grateful to all of them. (ive also cringed more than once since starting this article thinking about times ive made my own faux pas!)the rub comes when a passing acquaintance or stranger wants to replace their own due diligence with a hey, can i pick your brain message. ninety percent of my requests these days come through linked in or someone who found my site and a lot of it comes down to laziness luna said.or when the ask entails more than a quick response, said a web designer friend. when it takes more than five minutes  you move from friendly question to a subject matter expert territory to billable hours territory.so whats a person to do if they genuinely want help from someone and dont want to damage the relationship? lederman had some tips. there are several ways to ask for help that take the pressure off, she said.you can give them a way to opt out. that could be as simple as i know youre busy; if you have time ....you can make it easy  give them options other than spending a chunk of time, like recommending an online resource  and make it convenient. as opposed to the former co-worker who wanted me to spend an hour on the road just getting to and from the appointment, make it easy for the person to grant your request by letting them choose a place and time most convenient for them.you can let them know whats in it for them. thats fairly easy when youre a journalist asking an expert in their field to be featured in a national publication but easier said than done in other cases.and then theres the \"non ask.\" (i might call it the big hint.) say someone wants to open an airbnb and they know ive been a superhost for years. they could just mention their plans to me, leaving it open. its not asking anything of you, you have the option of offering or not, she said. depending on who made the non ask i might suggest some resources including my blog or tell them about my consulting service. or choose to not take the bait. no harm done.do your homework before you aski would add that its important to have done your homework first. if youre asking a question that can be answered with a google search, well, you shouldnt expect an answer from any busy professional. your request should also be specific.i will routinely refuse requests to connect or ill email back with a simple can you be more clear about your request so i can better answer you?  said kevin liu, a restaurateur in richmond, virginia.if people keep pestering without being clear, he said, then i will usually set up a filter so that all their future message go straight to trash.while liu doesnt find it offensive per se, he said, if someone asks to pick my brain, it makes me assume something about them: that they are either clueless, lacking confidence or trying to hide something.so before you hit send on that next \"pick your brain\" request, take a moment and consider what youre asking. do some homework, figure out what exactly youre asking for, make it easy, give them an out and let them know whats in it for them (and dont forget the good old please and thank you). sound like too much work? you could always just hire them.more how to guideshow to be a better bosshow to be a better public speakerhow to tap into a zen feeling anywherehow to make friends as an adultwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when most of us take out our blender (especially this time of year) its to whip up a smoothie. and while smoothies can be a great on-the-go breakfast or snack option, thats only scratching the surface when it comes to using the common kitchen gadget to make an easy, healthy meal.get a lot more mileage out of your blender  and save some time and grocery dollars, too  with these nutritious blender recipes from registered dietitians and healthy chefs.ice cubeswho says ice cubes have to be just h20? use fruit-flavored cubes to add antioxidant-rich sweetness to your water glass. in the heat of the summer, its important to hydrate with plenty of fluid and water-rich foods, says natalie rizzo, ms, rd, a sports dietitian in new york city. watermelon is more than 90 percent water, and it contains the electrolyte potassium, which aids hydration. to flavor your water without any added sugar, freeze a batch of these refreshing watermelon lime ice cubes.pancakes and wafflesmaking batter in a blender is a great way to sneak in fruits and veggies for an extra boost of nutrition. enjoy a batch of naturally sweet, beet-based pink pancakes. this recipe couldnt be easier, because the batter is whipped up in a blender in less than 60 seconds, says dietitian blogger chelsea gloeckner, ms, rd. you can top the pancakes with your favorite sweet or savory toppings  avocado, tahini and grapefruit is a delicious combo. or try cottage cheese protein pancakes or sweet potato flax waffles.nut milkhomemade pistachio milk is super easy to make, thanks to the help of a high-powered blender. this type of nut milk isnt readily available at the supermarket, so itll taste like a treat. drink the milk on its own, or pair with your favorite whole-grain cereal. dont forget to save the pulp  you can stir it into a bowl of oatmeal, or even a muffin or quick bread batter to take advantage of the protein and fiber that the pistachios boast.muffinsmuffin batter is just as easy to prep as pancake batter  and blending allows you to easily add in veggies. as a busy mom, i need fast recipes that use minimal kitchen tools and pack a lot of nutrients, says lauren panoff, mph, rd, a dietitian in boulder, colorado. these veggie blender muffins can be adapted to use whatever veggies you have on hand, and the kids wont even know! if youre in the mood for something fruit based and sweeter, go with pb&amp;j banana mini blender muffins or banana nut oat muffins.healthier alfredo saucelove the creaminess of alfredo sauce, but not the calories and fat its typically packed with? blend up a version with a base of cottage cheese, olive oil, lemon juice and herbs, instead. this cottage cheese alfredo allows you to add a delicious, protein-packed sauce to pasta, spaghetti squash or veggie noodles.salad dressingsome store-bought dressings are great, but others are packed with added sugar and are pretty high in calories because of the oil or cream they contain. plus, why not save grocery dollars by blending up ingredients you likely already have at home? this creamy lemon basil dressing gets its creaminess from soaked cashews, which are soft enough for any blender, says catherine brown, a plant-based chef in errol, new hampshire. it contains no dairy, added sugar or oil  and offers some protein and fiber. its fantastic on salad, with roasted vegetables, over baked potatoes or as a dipping sauce!pureed soupfancy pureed soups arent just for restaurants  and soup doesnt have to be a meal reserved for colder temps either. this no-cook soup uses canned tomatoes, which are high in lycopene (a natural plant chemical found in higher amounts in canned tomatoes), says toby amidor, ms, rd author of smart meal prep for beginners. research has linked lycopene with a lower risk of cardiovascular disease, prostate cancer and macular degeneration. whip up chilled tomato-herb soup and freeze extra in small containers for quick weeknight meals. dabble with other veggie combos, too, such as creamy carrot cauliflower soup or creamy broccoli soup.marinara saucetasty, nutritious jarred sauce can be pretty pricey. so why not make your own? no-cook tomato sauce made with three kinds of tomatoes and fresh basil is a fun way to get out of a spaghetti rut, says erica julson, ms, rdn, clt, a registered dietitian in los angeles. youll get a good dose of immunity-boosting vitamin c and disease-fighting lycopene. want even more veggies in your pasta sauce? opt for a version with red onion, bell pepper and zucchini with this hidden veggie sauce.edible cookie doughhow about a concoction that tastes like cookie dough, but is safe to eat and contains a protein boost as well? this edible cooke dough is a delicious dessert that can feed a crowd, says chelsey amer, ms, rdn, a dietitian in new york city. its made from blended white beans, with a hint of sweetness from date sugar and maple syrup. it tastes like a delicious dessert but is packed with protein and fiber, making it the perfect evening treat!vegan ice creamno need to run to the grocery store when an ice cream craving hits! you can make a healthier, fruit-based ice cream in minutes with your blender. do you love ice cream but avoid dairy, or are you trying to limit added sugar in your diet? asks lauren harris-pincus, ms, rdn, author of the protein-packed breakfast club. this banana fudge vegan ice cream is for you, with 22 grams of plant-based protein thanks to tofu and powdered peanut butter. the blender turns frozen bananas into a super creamy base for this nutrient-packed dessert. not in the mood for chocolate? try cantaloupe banana nice cream  just swap the milk for a plant-based version if youre aiming for a vegan dessert.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

how many times have you postponed doing something, only to find out that your delay made everything worse? (parking tickets, medical bills, taxes, even waiting too long to call a friend fits under this umbrella.) most of us learn pretty quickly that inaction is the best way to ensure an exponentially more difficult situation, yet for some reason we keep punishing ourselves.the pain is especially acute around financial decisions. according to a new survey by principal financial group, seven out of 10 americans cop to postponing financial decisions. a further 56 percent have not made any major financial decisions in the last three years. why? the study has an answer for that only 30 percent of americans feel comfortable with their knowledge of financial management, showing that the fear many of us encounter when were put in unfamiliar situations can be paralyzing. the good news: once people spend time learning about financial planning, theyre 75 percent more likely to be confident in their financial future. and thats a goal none of us should postpone.break the cyclesome people dont put financial moves at the top of the list because they believe its not the right time, explains jerry patterson, senior vice president of retirement and income solutions at principal financial group. its almost as if every one of us is two people  the present self, and the future self. its very hard for us to take action on something that will be helpful for us 30 years from now, especially when the present us wants a cappuccino. in other words, the further away the benefit is, the less likely we are to take action and the more likely we are to postpone.thankfully, devoting just a small amount of time studying the basics  which retirement savings vehicles are the best for you (401(k), ira, etc.), how much you need to put aside to reach your retirement goals, and how to budget for all of the above  is often all thats needed to put you on the road to financial confidence. the trick is taking that first step. this stuff isnt that hard and doesnt take that much time, patterson says. this is about you slowing down your busy life for an hour and figuring out what to do.stop runningin the back of our minds, theres often a voice telling us, youre not where you need to be yet  once you get there, you can make a decision, patterson says. but the idea that we need to wait until weve saved a ton of money before we start to analyze our savings goals is crazy. accept your situation, he says. it is what it is, so embrace it and focus on the future.every day you postpone saving is another day youre going to have to work when youd rather be retired.remember that time plays a huge role in your overall retirement picture, and the earlier you start saving, the more interest will accrue, and the more youll have saved for retirement. every day you postpone saving is another day youre going to have to work when youd rather be retired, he says. (and if thats not motivating, i dont know what is!)lose the fear of failurewhile first-time investors are often scared of taking their first steps into financial planning, investors who have been in the game a while can be just as much  if not more afraid. people have a real fear of reevaluating the decisions theyve made previously. ive actually had people tell me, im afraid to look at my 401(k) and see that i made the wrong decision, and thats just fear of failure  not finances, says john girouard, ceo of financial planning firm capital asset management group and author of take back your money.thankfully, education can eliminate fear just as well as it boosts confidence. everyone has their own devil, and sometimes it takes a while to get to the bottom of it, girouard says. he takes his clients through an educational process where they go over everything from the difference between stocks and bonds to the fears and anxieties they had coming in. you could do something similar by working with a financial advisor, but also by reading a basic finance book (try: \"get a financial life by beth kobliner\" or \"i will teach you to be rich\" by ramit sethi, both classics) and then talking honestly about it with your spouse or a friend. you cant eliminate the danger in someones decisions until you find out whats keeping them up at night, girouard says.play the long gameonce you cross those confidence and fear barriers, patience is the next bridge to traverse. sometimes if people dont see results quickly, or if they see short-term losses, they may think they need to change things or abandon their plans, but you have to stick with it, says bob schmidt, manager of investment research group brandes institute. soon youll see that youve succeeded at making money, and youll know this whole thing actually works.with kathryn tuggleget more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 daysneed to save money fast? try a spending banwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

theres nothing like putting on a new item of clothing only to spill something on it right after. or, that proud feeling of showing off a brand new rug only for a pet to make their mark on it. but fret not  where theres a will to get a stain out, theres a way.stain removal experts patric richardson, owner of mona williams, also known as the laundry evangelist, and mary marlowe leverette, laundry and housekeeping expert at the spruce, were kind enough to share a few tips on how to get the toughest stains out of your clothing, and various surfaces, too.wineclothingleverette recommends flushing the stain by holding the fabric wrong side up under running cold-water to force the stain out  contrary to advice, club soda doesnt work any better than plain water, she says. mix a solution of oxygen bleach and cool water (or use a product with those ingredients) and soak the entire garment for at least one hour. four hours are better, overnight is best, she says. check the stains and wash as usual.rugs and upholsteryrichardson says to dab a solution of water and bleach alternative on the stain and follow up by dabbing it with a towel of clear hot water. then, use a clean towel blot up the wet area. if your carpet is white or a light color, it will appear bleached but if you leave it for a few weeks the color will even out once again, he says.leverette says to bear in mind that hydrogen peroxide can bleach out the color of darker carpets and upholstery.granite or marble countertopsmix baking soda and hydrogen peroxide to form a thick paste the consistency of peanut butter. spread the mixture about one-fourth inch thick over the stain and cover with plastic wrap. tape down the edges of the plastic wrap to hold it in place. allow the mixture to remain on the stain for 24 hours. remove the plastic wrap and allow the mixture to dry completely, then wipe away. repeat as needed until the stain is gone. after cleaning, the stained area will need to be resealed to prevent further staining. inkclothingleverette recommends dipping a cotton swab in clear rubbing alcohol and gently lifting the stain from the outside edge toward the center, swapping swabs as soon as each absorbs the ink. she warns permanent ink (as in sharpies) are permanent.rugs and upholsteryuse the same techniques. when stain is removed, blot the area with plain water and allow to air dry.granite/marbleagain  same as above. rinse with plain water and do not allow the alcohol to dry on the stone.greaseclothingrichardson says it can be very frustrating to get grease stains out of clothing  but there is a simple trick. use a solution of 50 percent vinegar and 50 percent water on the stain. apply liberally and then treat with laundry soap and water. do not put the garment in the dryer until you have seen that the stain is gone, he warns.rugs and upholsteryrichardson advises dabbing grease stains with laundry soap and rinsing with water. follow up by dabbing a little white vinegar on the spot if the stain still shows.pet urineclothingleverette says washing the item with a heavy-duty detergent in the hottest water recommended for the fabric should do the trick. add one cup of distilled white vinegar to the rinse water to help with odor removal. if the stain is old and the odor is strong, mix a solution of cool water and add two cups white distilled vinegar. completely submerge the fabric and allow it to soak overnight, she says. wash as recommended above. line drying the items outside will also help get rid of the odors.rugs and upholsteryas soon as possible, soak up urine stains with white paper towels, an old cloth, or a wet/dry shop vacuum, says leverette. if using a cloth, press it firmly into the stain using an old shoe and keep moving to a dry area or new paper towel to absorb as much liquid as possible. commercial pet stain removers work fine but you can easily make your own by mixing one-part distilled white vinegar and one-part cool water and pouring it into a spray bottle, she says. be sure to completely saturate the carpet all the way to the backing. use a soft-bristle brush to work it deep into the fibers, and blot the solution away using paper towels or a shop vacuum, allowing the stain to air dry.when the carpet is dry, sprinkle the area with baking soda. mix 1/2 cup hydrogen peroxide with two cups cool water. this should be mixed fresh each time because hydrogen peroxide turns to pure water after exposure to light, leverette explains. spray or pour this solution onto the baking soda and use a soft bristle brush to work it into the carpet. blot or vacuum away the moisture, allowing the carpet to air dry away from direct heat. when the carpet is dry, vacuum to lift the fibers.grassclothingleverette recommends treating grass stains with a stain remover or a bit of heavy-duty laundry detergent (tide and persil contain the needed enzymes to remove the stains). work the stain remover into the fabric with your fingers or a soft-bristled brush. set aside for 15 minutes and then wash as usual. if the stains remain or are older, mix a solution of oxygen bleach and cool water and allow the garment to soak overnight, then wash, she says.coffeeclothingrichardson says the easiest way to remove coffee stains is to run hot water directly through the stain. if the stain sets, spot treat it with a solution of 50 percent vinegar and 50 percent water, then use a brush and a little laundry soap to remove the vinegar.rugs and upholsteryleverette recommends blotting the stain and mixing a solution of two teaspoons of dishwashing detergent in two cups of warm water. dip a clean white cloth, sponge, or soft bristle brush in the solution. working from the outside edge of the stain toward the center to keep it from spreading, work the cleaning solution into the stain. blot with a dry cloth to absorb the solution. keep moving to a clean area of the cloth as the stain is transferred. finish by dipping a clean cloth in plain water to rinse the spot. this is especially important because any soapy residue left in the carpet will actually attract more soil, she explains. allow the stain to air dry away from direct heat, then vacuum to lift the carpet fibers.granite or marble countertopsmix 1/2 cup hydrogen peroxide with two cups cool water. it will solve almost all tough stains, says leverette, who advises against using acidic cleaners like vinegar or lemon juice, which can etch the stone.mudclothingrichardson says the easiest way to remove mud from your clothes is to use laundry soap and a brush directly on the fabric. wet the area and then rub the stain with soap and a brush  repeat twice if the stain is really set, he says.rugs and upholsteryrichardson says to wet the stain generously with water, use laundry soap and a brush to remove the mud, then spray vinegar and water on the area to dissolve the soap. finally, blot with a clean dry towel.bloodclothingleverette says to flush the stained area with cold (never hot) water as soon as possible. hot water will cook the protein in the blood, making it more difficult to remove from the fabric, she explains. treat the stain with stain remover or a bit of liquid heavy-duty laundry detergent, working it into the fibers with a soft-bristled brush. set aside for 15 minutes and then wash as usual in cool water. if the stain remains, mix a solution of oxygen bleach and water and submerge the entire garment, allowing it to soak at least four hours, she says. repeat if needed and wash as usual.rugs and upholsteryblot up as much moisture as possible with a white paper towel, says leverette. keep moving to a clean area of the towel as the blood is absorbed to prevent making the stain larger. if the stain has dried, use a soft bristled brush to loosen the dried blood and vacuum away before treating.mix one teaspoon of liquid hand dish washing detergent in two cups of cold water. dip a white cloth or the brush in this solution and work from the outside edge of the stain toward the center to prevent spreading. blot or lightly scrub the stain and blot with a dry paper towel to absorb the moisture. when the stain is gone, dip a clean white cloth in plain cold water and rinse the area to remove all cleaning solution. allow the carpet to air dry away from direct heat and then vacuum to lift the fibers.if this method doesnt work, leverette says to mix one tablespoon household ammonia with 1/2 cup water. apply to the stain and let it sit on the carpet for at least 10 minutes. blot away and rinse with plain water and repeat until the stain is removed.so go ahead  get dirty without fear this summer. at least now you know how to clean it all up.more cleaning hacksquick and easy diy cleaning hacks thatll make life easierhow often you should clean your home, according to sciencewhy the 20/10 method can change the way you cleanhow often to replace everything in your bathroom, bedroom and kitchenwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its barbecue season, which means youre likely firing up the grill to whip up some of your summer favorites. but after a whole winter season sitting stagnant, it likely needs a good clean. so you get out your bristle brush and begin scraping.except the grime isnt budging. if no amount of elbow grease seems to get to the bottom of the stuck-on grime and oil, jeff rossen, nbc news national investigative correspondent and host of rossen reports, has some tricks up his sleeves to help you get through the grime and back to cooking up some tasty summer fare.4 hacks to clean your grillsteam: fill a regular, metal tin from your kitchen with water and boil it on the grill. push the tin to the side (using a mit!) and begin scrapping with a bristle brush. the steam helps the grime come right off!beer: pour half a bottle of beer over the top of greasy grates on a warm grill. the beer will break down the oil and grease, and it will come right off when clean with a bristle brush.vinegar: put regular, household vinegar into a spray bottle. spray vinegar all over the grill, then take a balled up piece of aluminum foil and use that as a bristle brush to scrape the grime right off.onion: cut an onion in half, put it on the end of your grilling fork and rub it all over the grill grates, then scrub with a bristle brush. the enzymes from the onion will help break down the oil and the grease.and remember to be extra careful about loose brush bristles left behind on the grill  a huge safety hazard. barbecue brushes have caused an estimated 1,698 emergency room visits from 2002 to 2014, according to a study published in 2016 in the journal otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. experts suggest replacing your brush regularly, and inspecting both the grill grates and your food for lose bristles.have a better summer with these tipsthe best way to do a summer detox, according to nutritionistshow to protect yourself from zika11 better-for-you summer barbecue recipeshow to stop someone from drowning with a pool skimmerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

every morning, writer and illustrator alex mathers starts his day by going over a checklist of his top priorities.he says his simple night-before questions checklist helps him consider how the tasks he needs to tackle today will help him achieve his long-term aspirations tomorrow and beyond.the checklist starts with his long-term goals and drills down into the shorter-term priorities he needs to achieve them:what will i make happen within five years? (one major goal)what will i make happen within one year? (one major goal)what will i make happen within 30 days? (one thing)what will i make happen within seven days? (one thing)what will i do to start this day positively? (doing something other than what i usually do out of habit)what must get done today that develops my main craft? (daily work on a craft leads to mastery)what three extra tasks must get done today if any? (streamline your to-do list to what matters)who will i contact today to generate opportunities and good will? (nourish your relationships)what will i do today that scares me? (keep me stretching, building confidence and character)what will i do today to benefit my health?what will i do today to expand my extra-curricular world? (such as 30 minutes of learning a language, or reading)what was yesterdays key inch? (most crucial metric, such as new subscribers added, money made, and so on.)it ranges from stuff like what goals do i have over the next five years? all the way down to the present day to-do list, mathers tells nbc news better.it all comes down to two things, according to the blogger: what matters the most and what is the rough plan for the day?i just find it a lot more easy to visualize what needs to be done if i can see the long-term goal right now on the same page, because it effectively dictates what needs to be done today so i know that what im doing today matters because it has an effect in the long run, he explains.drill your responses down to one key thingeach day, mathers sits down to answer the questions on his checklist. often, he says, the responses are the same day-to-day, but over time, they evolve. he says the answers should be short, succinct and drilled down to one key thing.a lot of people struggle with overloading themselves with options, and when youre overloaded with different opportunities and different choices it can cause  i found this certainly myself  it causes the inability to do anything, says mathews.if you overcomplicate your responses with too many goals, youre more likely to feel overwhelmed.lets use the first question as an example, i.e., what will i make happen within five years? your goal might be to write a book, own a house or start your own business.if you overcomplicate your responses with too many goals, youre more likely to feel overwhelmed, explains mathers.if you whittle things down to the one thing, i found, its very, very useful to help you focus on what is key, and its a lot easier for you to visualize what you need to be doing, he explains.get over your busyness mindsetthe checklist empowers you to prioritize whats important to you instead of focusing on busywork that has little personal value, says mathers.you get this sense that you should be doing stuff, and everyone talks about having to hustle and having to work hard and all this stuff, he says.the checklist empowers you to prioritize whats important to you instead of focusing on busywork that has little personal value.to be truly productive, he says, you need to separate the busy work  tasks that have short-term value  from whats important to your long-term goals. for instance, you may spend your entire morning responding to emails, mathers says.whereas what you really should be doing with that time maybe early on in the day when youre kind of more fresh, when your creative juices are running, you really need to be spending that key time on stuff thats going to be good for you in the long term, he says.tasks that have long-term value include working on a novel, for example, or exercising to improve your health, he says.all of that stuff needs to take precedence, i think, over the urgent stuff, which will inevitably end up getting lost into the ether, mathers says.whats your key inch?the last question on mathers list  what was yesterdays key inch?  helps the artist measure his progress. he describes it as any sort of statistic or measure of some momentum that represents a fairly obvious step forward in your life.for mathers, this key inch is the number of people who subscribe to his newsletter each day, but he says it will be different for everyone.its the crucial metric  one statistic out of all of them  that matters the most, going back to that theme of prioritizing that one key thing, says mathers.mathers says focusing on his key inch has helped him gain more followers to his blog the red lemon club.ive been able to expand on my writing and gain a lot more followers with my writing and stuff because its just simply reminded me to sit down and smash out 2,000 words, mathers says, whereas i probably wouldnt have done that with the same amount of clarity without that question.how it works:go over the checklist every day: each morning before you start your day, go over the checklist. keep your answers succinct and focus on one key thing, or big-picture goal, for each.get over your busyness mindset: being busy all the time often prevents us from focusing on our big goals. the checklist encourages you to focus on the daily, short-term to-dos that will help you achieve your long-term aspirations, whether its writing a novel or owning your own home.ask yourself what your key inch is: the last question on the checklist  what was yesterdays key inch?  will help you measure progress towards your long-term goals. maybe you banged out 500 words for your novel, or saved an additional $100 for a down payment on your future home. focusing on yesterdays key inch will keep you motivated by focusing on your short-term successes.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its difficult if not impossible to define an american diet. the u.s is so diverse, so multicultural and so successful at importing foods from elsewhere; and yet one thing remains sadly true on a general level: were not terribly healthy. as a nation we consume too much of the bad stuff (added sugars, saturated fats and sodium) and not enough of the good stuff (vegetables, fruits, dairy and healthy oils). obesity rates continue to rise, not only among adults, but also among our children.to fix the problem on an individual level, many of us have started embracing the sensible eating styles of other cultures. the mediterranean diet, famous for its outstanding health benefits (including possibly keeping your brain young), was named the best overall diet for 2018 by u.s. news &amp; world report (a tie with the dash diet). now theres another regional diet catching our appetites: the nordic diet, and its highly recommended by dietitians and doctors.what makes it so special and how can we incorporate it into our daily lives?the nordic diet: fish, veggies, grains, fermented foods and winethe nordic diet is rooted in tradition back to the vikings and is comprised of natural fresh foods consumed by residents of sweden, norway, iceland, denmark, and finland, explains dr. luiza petre, a cardiologist and nutrition and weight loss expert. it consists of high amounts of nutrient rich, single foods with vegetables being the corner stone of this diet, and meats only filling the left over space. nordic vegetables are cabbage, broccoli, brussels sprouts, cauliflower, roots and peas. fish varieties include salmon, sardines, mackerel, herring and dried salty cod. fruits do not grow abundantly in the region; therefore, berries tend to be the primary source of fruit. the grains allowed are the nordic type of rye, wholegrain, barley and oats. fermented fish and dairy add to the epicurean experience. plenty of hydration is encouraged, whereas red meat, processed foods, added sugars and refined foods are to be avoided. wine sits on the top of the pyramid.eating local foods is emphasized which could be a main reason why its popularity has increased in recent years, making it a sustainable diet, dr. petre adds. savory flavors and fermented food with spices make it a culinary experience.red meat: gamy and leanwhile the nordic diet emphasizes seafood, it does incorporate red meats to an extent.definitely some beef dishes, but also game meats that we dont eat as much of here, jamie shifley, a registered dietitian and health coach. you may see larger animals like caribou, bison (which ive found ground at costco and think tastes really good) but also deer, or venison, which tends to be much leaner than beef because although red meat, the animal hasnt been raised to be fatty the way we raise cows here.eat your heart out (and keep your heart healthy)as a cardiologist, dr. petre recommends the nordic diet for the same reasons she recommends the mediterranean diet.the nordic diet is rich in healthy unsaturated fats and fiber, with low amounts of sugar, saturated fat, and processed foods, petre says. in many ways it is similar to the mediterranean diet, which is shown to help prevent heart disease. both diets are high in omega-3s which lower blood pressure, increase good cholesterol, reduce bad cholesterol and reduce the risk of diabetes. additionally, they are associated with lowering the risk of cancer and improving inflammation and overall cardiac health. a 2013 nordic study found that individuals on the diet experienced improved blood lipids and inflammation.fiber and probiotics combat digestive issues and obesityshifley also champions the diet, noting its staples as beneficial for long-term health.much research shows the benefits of consuming fatty fish, as well as lean fish [both integral to the diet, which] also includes dried fruits and whole grains as staples, shifley says. these foods include many essential nutrients (vitamins and minerals), as well as fiber, which can help with satiety, lowering cholesterol, blood sugar control and potentially with lowering risk of colon cancer.additionally, fermented foods, another aspect of this diet, are great for gut health, as they contain good bacteria (probiotics) that can help populate our guts and may provide protection again many conditions including obesity, digestive issues, diabetes, and more.potatoes made the right way, and a low-profile superfood: cabbagethe types of root vegetables (potatoes, rutabagas and carrots, for instance) that the nordic diet uses are also packed with nutrients.potatoes get a bad rap [in america] because we do a lot of fried potatoes, says shifley. but in the nordic diet theyre usually baked, grilled or boiled. theyre loaded with potassium, vitamin c, vitamin b and some iron and magnesium. they do have a lot of carbs but also fiber which helps damper the affect of carbs on blood sugar; that said, people with diabetes do need to be a bit more careful with potatoes.cabbage is another cornerstone of the nordic diet, a leafy green that is an excellent source of nutrients.cabbage has similar benefits to kale, says shifley. its a cruciferous vegetable  very leafy  and very low in calories and high in fiber so it will help fill you up when want to control calories. its high in vitamins k, c, and b as well as in several antioxidants, particularly those high in sulphur, which may help lower the risks of certain types of cancer such as esophageal cancer.canola oil is a nordic staple, but is it so different than olive oil?one of the core cooking ingredients in the nordic diet is canola oil, marking one of its biggest differences from the mediterranean diet, which incorporates olive oil.this has been a source of concern, as olive oil has a better omega-3 profile and contains more antioxidants and polyphenols found in olives, says dr. petre.you could certainly swap out canola oil for olive oil, but shifley notes that the latter does have less of a taste, making it more appealing to cook with when youre making something that doesnt naturally pair with that distinct olive flavor. additionally, while canola oil is a bit weaker in some nutritional aspects, the dissimilarities are far from significant.theyre both calorie dense unsaturated fats, which helps keep down the bad cholesterol, ldl, and also gives a boost to the hdl, the good cholesterol that acts like a vaccuum [in the body], grabbing the fatty buildup and flushing it out of body, shifley says.not up for herring? swap it out with salmonjust as you can replace the canola oil with olive oil (provided you dont mind the flavor), you can also use a fish like salmon to replace say, herring or mackerel, which are both very common in the nordic diet but less popular here. the most important thing to look for when shopping for fish is to check for freshness. you may also want to find out where the fish was sourced.when you go to the fish market at your grocery store, talk to the person at the counter who knows where the fish came from. this is one thing we can all be better at when shopping for fish, says samantha bartholomew, a registered dietitian and the manager of nutrition communications at fresh communications. aside from that, i dont think you can go wrong with the fish you choose.but will it help me be happier?we may be changing up our eating habits to slim down or get more energy or simply to try something new  but were also often seeking something deeper from our diets: wellbeing.might embracing the nordic diet help boost our happiness? the answer is, quite possibly yes  but only insofar as any sensible, balanced diet can.the important key in looking at these diets, whether its the mediterranean, dash or nordic, is the emphasis on fruits, vegetables, whole grains and more fish over meat, dr. prakash masand m.d., the founder of centers of psychiatric excellence (cope) tells nbc news better. with these food groups we see lower rates of obesity, which we know to be a driving force in medical illness including psychiatric ones such as depression.dr. masand finds that there tends to be a bit of idealizing and even fantasizing about the happiness of other cultures such as the nordic one here in america, and underscores that no diet in and of itself can turn a sad person happy; that said, diet is one of the first thing he asks about when assessing the psychological health of a client.the three pillars of good mental health are sleep, exercise and diet, he says. but if you want someone to adhere to a good diet it has to be one that fits into what they usually love to eat. if you say oh, switch entirely to the nordic diet, its just not going to happen. but if you say, hey, add some more fish and less red meat  thats reasonable.quick tips for embracing the nordic dietas dr. masand notes, making a 100 percent switchover to another cultures diet doesnt make much sense for most people. but there are simple ways to incorporate aspects of this eating regimen in your everyday life.aside from piling on the seafood, vegetables, and fermented foods shifley says youll also want to:reach for quality snacks. tree nuts are a great [nordic-style] snack. of course, berries are also big as are pickled vegetables  not just cucumbers but all kinds. rye crackers are another good one.go easy on the red meats as well as any processed carbohydrates. you wont see white breads or pastas in this diet.avoid processed foods. this is really the key. no chips or cookies. unless, of course, youre up for an occasional splurge. if you do, enjoy it and then make a healthier choice the next meal.more tips and tricks from a nutritionisthow to build a better smoothiehealthy trader joes products nutritionists swear bywhats the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?seriously filling salads youll want to eat all summerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

many people find cleanses and detoxes appealing as a way to reaffirm a commitment to healthy eating. while i certainly understand the desire dial down cravings for sweets and processed foods and create a pathway toward eating well over the long haul, the trouble i see with juicing and other similar cleanses is that too often, they leave people hangry, sluggish and distracted by constant thoughts of food. cleansing can also lead to unwanted issues, like constipation (from lack of fiber) and bloating (due to excess fructose from juice cleanses).if you want to reboot your diet without the unnecessary restriction and potential downsides that comes with detoxes and cleanses, clean up your eating with these nutritionist-approved tips instead.go green (and orange and purple and red)one of the best ways to reboot your diet is to rethink your fruits and vegetables. both fruits and vegetables provide fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients (natural plant chemicals that help fight and prevent disease), toby amidor, ms, rd, author of \"smart meal prep for beginners,\" says. most americans arent anywhere close to meeting their needs. (90 percent fall short of vegetable recommendations and 85 percent arent meeting their fruit quota.) to help you boost your intake and your overall health, amidor offers these suggestions: add sliced strawberries to your oatmeal at breakfast, opt for a vegetable salad topped with lean protein at lunch, and fill half your dinner plate with a steamed vegetable medley. and dont forget snacks! enjoy sliced carrots, celery and jicama with hummus or top your greek yogurt with sliced strawberries.one extra note here: chewing your produce has benefits over sipping it. it could take two heads of romaine lettuce to produce one cup of juice, and while two heads of romaine would leave you satisfied, a small cup of green juice probably wont put a dent in hunger. though youll get many of the same vitamins and minerals, juicing removes the fiber, which not only helps you fill up, but also provides important nourishment on its own.cut out added sweetenerswhile americans fall short on fruits and veggies, were overdoing it on sugar, consuming close to 20 teaspoons a day. health authorities suggest capping added sugars at 6 teaspoons (equivalent to about 25 g) a day for women and 9 teaspoons (or about 36 g) for men. challenge yourself to cut back on added sugar from sweetened yogurts, cereals and granola bars, as well as the usual suspects (soda, cookies, ice cream, cookies and other baked goods). youll appreciate the natural sweetness of fruit so much more when you cut unnecessary added sweeteners from your diet.be good to your gutmany people are drawn to cleanses to reset their gi system, but theres no evidence that the cleanses and detoxes you typically read about have any benefit. instead of trying to flush out toxins, take measures to boost your gut health so it can do its job well. a healthy gut is important for almost every aspect of wellness  from boosting your mood to helping you sleep, from weight management to preventing chronic diseases, the list goes on and on. to reboot your diet and reset your gut, remember to eat the three ps: prunes, pulses and pears, says patricia bannan, ms, rdn, nutrition and healthy cooking expert.prunes help maintain good digestive health and can positively affect the bacteria living in the gut, potentially reducing the risk of colon cancer. and pulses (which include lentils, beans, chickpeas and peas) can improve gut health by strengthening the gut barrier and reducing the risk of gut-associated diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). pears contain prebioitic fiber that helps promote intestinal health by providing food for beneficial probiotic bacteria. the point is, you need a variety of fiber sources to optimize your gut health so make sure to include these foods, as well as others rich in fiber (such as whole grains and an array of fruits and veggies), often.take a break from boozealcohol may lower inhibitions, which could make you more likely to reach for unhealthy foods, says keri gans, rd, nutritionist, and author of the small change diet. anyone who has tossed back a couple of margaritas and some chips and guac at happy hour can relate! save the booze until after your reboot. once youre firmly back on track, if you want to reintroduce alcohol in moderation, go for it, she says.eat hydrating foodsthe human body is about 60 percent water, and your body needs to be continually hydrated throughout the day in order to optimally function, explains amy gorin, ms, rdn, owner of amy gorin nutrition in the new york city area. in addition to drinking h20 and water-rich, low-calorie beverages like tea, you can also prioritize eating foods that are full of water  including fruits, veggies, broth-based soups and even oatmeal. these foods are also full of vitamins, minerals and antioxidants that will benefit your body. in the summer, i love blending fruit into a breakfast smoothie and grilling peaches for dessert, she says.minimize snackingdawn jackson blatner, rdn, author of \"the superfood swap,\" offers this tip: swap grazing for plated snacks. i have a tendency to graze mindlessly, and even if its on healthy stuff, it adds up, she says. grabbing a spoonful of this while standing in the kitchen, scooping a handful of that while working at my desk, or eating just a few little bites of something while watching tv. anyone else familiar with this scenario?when i need to give my diet a reboot, i focus on having two nourishing, planned snacks per day, like a pear and pecans, or grape tomatoes and string cheese, or berries and yogurt. and i put the snacks on a plate, sit down and enjoy them. this part is especially key. when you graze or snack mindlessly, you dont register those foods as well as when you plate them. no plate? no problem! use a paper towel, napkin, cup or whatever is available to you to help you eat more mindfully.do a social media cleansethis is the one cleanse i can get behind! youve probably seen news reports that social media can heighten feelings of isolation and anxiety, but it can also increase feelings of body dissatisfaction. if certain accounts make you feel down about your body, your weight or the way you eat, it might be worth using the handy unfollow tool. ditto for any accounts that recommend overly restrictive eating behaviors. there are healthy ways to lose weight that honor and respect your body so rid yourself of all the social noise that might be toxic to your overall wellbeing.more tips and tricks from a nutritionisthow to build a better smoothiehealthy trader joes products nutritionists swear by11 delicious avocado recipes that dont involve avocado toastseriously filling salads youll want to eat all summerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its officially summer. which means its also officially time to throw open the doors, fire up the grill and take your dining outdoors.but from the condiment table to the cooler, there are diet landmines everywhere you turn. and thats just scratching the surface of the dangers that lurk at your outdoor barbecue. food safety is a huge concern as the temperatures heat up and people take their cooking and eating out of the kitchen and into the backyard. when it comes to safely handling food and preventing food-borne illness this season, how do you stack up?nbc news health and nutrition editor madelyn fernstrom puts your summer barbecue knowledge to the test with these common nutrition and food safety dilemmas. quiz yourself now to stay safe later!youre at the condiment table, is ketchup a better or worse choice than bbq sauce?answer: betterketchup is known for being a high-sugar topping, so you may be surprised to hear that barbecue sauce actually clocks in higher. not only does it have more sugar per tablespoon, but its higher in calories and sodium too, says fernstrom. in fact, theres 30 percent more calories in barbecue sauce, she says. the best pick on the condiment table? mustard, which has only 5 calories per tablespoon  plus you tend to use much less when using it to top hot dogs and hamburgers.is potato salad a better or worse choice than pasta salad?answer: betteryes, they are both mayo-based salads, but potato salad  with fewer calories and more nutrients per serving  will be the better option when choosing a side. pasta salad is usually made with regular, white pasta. potatoes are really a vegetable, and if you leave the skins on youre going to get all of the nutrients of potatoes, says fernstrom. plus, when you dress a potato salad youre usually going to use less dressing, whether its mayonnaise or a vinaigrette, than on a pasta salad. so youll get fewer calories and more nutrients. and stick with a  cup serving size, she adds.is beer a better or worse drink choice than a margarita?answer: bettermany of us steer clear of beer, thinking its caloric and can cause bloating, but its actually the smarter pick at the backyard bar. in fact, most beers contain half the amount of calories as a mixed drink made with juice, says fernstrom. if youre going to have some alcohol, a beer is the better choice. a beer, especially when portion controlled in a bottle, is about 150 calories, says fernstrom. when you have an alcoholic drink, most of them are going to be mixed with fruit juice that has a lot of sugar, and thats going to be double the calories, or more if the serving is bigger.is it better or worse to rinse raw chicken in the sink before cooking?answer: worseyou may think youre taking the right steps by rinsing your chicken before throwing it on the grill, but youre actually increasing the chances of contaminating your kitchen and spreading bacteria. just pat it dry, says fernstrom. washing it spreads bacteria all over the counter and sink; its easier to cross contaminate. when you cook it on the grill, all the bacteria will be killed from the heat. so resist the impulse to wash your chicken and put it right on the grill.you touch raw meat, and its time to wash your hands: how long should you wash your hands in order to kill the bacteria?a. 10 secondsb. 20 secondsc. 30 secondsanswer: (b) wash for at least 20 seconds.how long is 20 seconds? sing happy birthday twice while washing your hands with soapy water, says fernstrom. if you dont have soap and water  say youre at the grill and touch something raw  use some hand sanitizer. its not as good as soap and water, but its still a good way to get rid of the bacteria.how long can you safely leave food outside on the picnic table when its 78 degrees outside?a. one hourb. two hoursc. three hoursanswer: (b) two hours.how long do you usually sit outside picking at the food spread? chances are, longer than two hours. but thats how long you have before you need to bring it in and put it in the fridge, says fernstrom. after this amount of time, the bacteria in food can multiply rapidly and lead to foodborne illness. when its a really hot day over 90 degrees, this window shortness to one hour, fernstrom adds. the fda tells us to ensure that food stays out of the danger zone  between 40f and 140f. that means cold food stays below 40f, and hot food stays warmer than 140f.what is considered a safe internal temperature for a grilled burger?a. 150 degrees (medium rare)b. 160 degrees (medium)c. 170 degrees (medium well)answer: (b) 160 degrees.stick with medium  food safety rules say that anything over 140 degrees is going to be safe, but its really hard to tell, says fernstrom. use an instant meat thermometer. you cant just look at it or press it [and know its cooked through]. and if you are at high risk for foodborne illness  think: children, seniors, immune-compromised  stick with at least medium to medium well, since medium rare can be a bigger risk.what is the safest way to defrost meat?in the fridgeon the counterin the microwaveanswer: (a) in the fridge.the key is keeping [the meat] cold, says fernstrom. it takes about two days in the refrigerator to thaw out a roast, big pieces pf chicken or hamburger meat. so allow 48 hours to defrost. defrosting on the counter in room temperature may be faster, but bacteria can multiply, she adds. and never put it in the microwave: it cooks from the outside in, so youll have some cooked parts, some raw frozen parts, and a lot of bacteria can grow at that in between temperature, fernstrom says. what about putting it in a cold dish of ice water? it works, but you have to be very vigilant at changing the water and ice so it stays super cold, she says. so do yourself a favor and put it in the fridge and let it defrost over two days.what is the best way to marinate a flank steak?a. in a big zip-lock bagb. in a glass baking dish, tightly covered with plastic wrapc. in a plastic container with its own lid.answer: (a) big zip lock bag.when you use a plastic bag its sealed and contained and air tight, says fernstrom. when you have it in a plastic container, or even glass covered with plastic wrap, bacteria can get in and your hands are all over it. then when youre massaging it and turning it around while its marinating, its a mess and you can spread more bacteria around. with a bag you can just turn over the bag; you dont have to open it.when its time to put the meat on the grill, throw away the marinade thats already been sitting on the meat, urges fernstrom. some people pour the extra juice over the meat, which is a huge safety hazard. remove the meat and throw the whole bag and remaining marinade out. youll have a much lower chance of cross contamination with a disposable unit,\" she says. \"and if you want that extra marinade, make another batch that has not touched raw meat.have a better summer with these tipsthe best way to do a summer detox, according to nutritionistshow to protect yourself from zika11 better-for-you summer barbecue recipeshow to stop someone from drowning with a pool skimmerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

researchers from the velux group recently conducted a survey across 14 countries, the results of which labelled us as the indoor generation.why? according to their research, they discovered:25 percent of americans spend 21 to 24 hours a day inside20 percent of americans spend 19 to 20 hours a day inside21 percent of americans spend 15 to 18 hours a day inside34 percent of americans spend 0 to 14 hours a day insidethink about that for a second: a quarter of us spend 21 to 24 hours per day inside? how is that even possible? and almost half of us spend 20 hours per day inside? in what world is this good for us?the thing is, it isnt. as their video illustrates, this lifestyle is slowly making us sick. yet, the indoor generation doesnt realize the air inside our homes and public buildings can be up to five times more polluted than the air outside.indoor air pollution affects us all, but it especially impacts our childrens health, says dr. peter foldjberg, head of daylight energy and indoor climate at velux. a childs bedroom is the most at risk from indoor air pollution because many plastic childrens toys emit noxious gases. additionally, we also tend to forget to air them out. the levels of damp and mold in our modern, airtight homes is increasing our risk of developing serious respiratory conditions such as asthma.indeed, studies show that household mold and dampness can increase your risk of developing asthma by as much as 30-to-60 percent, depending on the climate you live in and the levels of mold and dampness in your home.put quite simply, the solution is fresher air. norman pace, a microbiologist at the pace lab in the department of molecular, cellular and developmental biology at the university of colorado boulder, colorado, describes outdoor air as nominally cleaner than indoor air. the typical indoor air is mainly human microbiology, he says. people need as much fresh air as possible, he says.john p. lapotaire, certified indoor environmental consultant and indoor air quality solutions, and president of the indoor air quality association says poor indoor air quality at home can also lead to restless nights and a slow start to the day.homes today are built to keep the outside out and the inside in, he explains. they fill with what the occupants use in their daily activities of cleaning, cooking, bathing, breathing and their individual specialty activities. outdoor factors are far less of an issue than they were in the past. if ventilation rate is low, the chemically sensitive can react to the accumulation of daily use products (like aerosol sprays and other cleaning items). gas appliances present the risk of carbon monoxide. there are dust mites in any home with humidity above 50 percent. the more people and pets we have, the more dust mites we will have.lapotaire says childrens rooms arent the only problem  virtually any room can be susceptible to poor indoor air quality. the presence of a fireplace increases the possibility of any room having poor indoor air quality. lack of a return air duct in a childrens bedroom is always a concern for us  it can lead to an increase in carbon dioxide during the night. kitchens without exhaust fans ducted to the exterior are always contributors to poor air quality. project rooms (where people use glues and toxic chemicals) are also culprits.to get more fresh air into your home and improve air circulation overall, lapotaire says:bring the hvac ducting design to todays code, requiring a return air duct in each bedroomkeeping humidity levels at or below 50 percent will make the home comfortable while eliminating dust mitesthe bathroom:if possible, replace exhaust fans with humidistat exhaust fans to regulate humidityin older homes, run existing fans and exhausts and open windows to release humidity while showeringmake sure your vents are clear (check laundry rooms, too)the kitchen:turn on hood fans and open windows when cookingthe bedrooms:install and use ceiling fansopen windows 3-4 times a daynix the mood candles  studies show paraffin-based candles emit harmful chemicals into the airof course, science is heavily in favor of spending more time outside. studies have shown a 30-minute walk outside each day, even if its freezing, yields tons of health benefits, including increased energy, a dose of vitamin d (boosting bone health and your immune function), improved mood and lower blood pressure  even improved memory.but if youre stuck inside, at least open a window.

though the frequency of cleaning depends on our lifestyle and whether or not we can afford a housekeeping service, its a chore that stares us down with mounting pressure.ive got some serious housecleaning to do right now, but im short on time and the last thing i want to do after work is spend an hour scrubbing the tub or stove. should i just put it all off until the weekend and spend a whole day tackling the inevitable dust and grime? i was leaning toward a big fat yes until i consulted a handful of cleaning experts and realized, i can get quite a bit done without investing hours of my day, and better yet, i can use ingredients i already have on hand for cooking, etc., so i dont have to squander a small fortune on a new batch of eco-friendly cleaning products.heres a list of cleaning hacks for those of us looking to save time, money and of course, sanity.1. buff surfaces with olive oilolive oil has many nutritional benefits (and can possibly increase longevity). turns out it can also help you clean the house.olive oil is a great option for cleaning stainless steel, such as pots, pans and appliances. put olive oil on a soft cloth and rub in a circular motion to buff out any dirty spots, says mat franken, ceo and founder of aunt fannies, a manufacturer of whole ingredient, food-based cleaning and pest solutions for the home.2. detox the garbage disposal with lemons or limesthe garbage disposal does a lot of dirty work on a regular basis, so its important to keep it clean and clog-free.to clean and deodorize garbage disposals, use a fresh lemon or lime, says franken. cut the citrus fruit into quarters, and while you have the water running put the lemon pieces one by one into the disposal.4. remove carpet stains with vodkarubbing alcohol, clear vodka (which has a lot of cleaning benefits!) and even white wine can be used for this cleaning hack.first blot the stain. second, pour any type of clear alcohol (rubbing alcohol, vodka, white wine) onto the stain, says greg shepard, owner of the housecleaning service dallas maids. this is better than any over the counter product.4. eliminate water stains with shaving creamwhod have thought that shaving cream could be used to clean? shepard vouches for it as a great way to remove water stains from shower glass.apply the shaving cream and let it sit for 15 minutes, then wipe off, shepard says.5. baking soda and vinegar will basically clean the tub for youjenice findley, director of marketing at the newly launched fins property maintenance, which offers various commercial cleaning services, recommends the following 10-minute plan of attack for tubs. [mix] one cup vinegar, half a cup of baking soda with hot water and pour into [an empty] tub and allow to sit for five minutes, says findley. start filling the tub with hot water until it is approximately one-quarter filled, and let it sit for an additional five minutes. then release drain and rinse thoroughly.6. use the same solution to clean toiletsyou can use the same concoction to freshen up your toilet, findley notes. just let it soak for a bit, then flush and wipe the seat.7. essential oils for a sparkling toiletdoyle james, president of mr. rooter plumbing, a neighborly company, recommends using essential oils in a diy toilet cleaner.mix one cup of baking soda with 15 drops of tea tree essential oil and 15 drops of lemon or orange essential oil. let the mixture sit in the bowl for 30 minutes and scrub with a bowl brush before flushing.8. a diy aromatherapy cleaning solution for shining sinks and tubsjames also recommends getting your sink or tub to shine by mixing baking soda, drops of lemon and basil essential oils and dish soap. sponge the mixture on the surface of your bathtub and bathroom sink for 10 minutes. after rising off with water, [they] will be glistening.9. steam the microwave with lemon oilyou can also use essential oils to clean the microwave.add 15 drops of lemon essential oil into one and a half cups water to a microwave-safe bowl, and microwave on high for five to 10 minutes, allowing the steam to condense on inside walls/ceilings of your machine, says doug rogers, president of mr. appliance, a neighborly company. once complete, simply wipe away the softened food with a sponge.10. nuke a damp spongeanother way to clean your microwave is by putting a clean, dampened sponge or cloth on the tray and setting it on high for two minutes.this will kill bacteria, says jennifer rodriguez, chief hygiene officer at pro housekeepers. then use sponge or cloth to wipe down the microwave.12. diy glass cleanerif you dont feel like running to the store for more glass cleaner, making your own is easy, says larry patterson, franchise owner of glass doctor, a neighborly company. mix white vinegar, distilled water, drops of an essential oil and shake. this is an affordable and easy way to clean your windows, mirrors or even shower doors if youre in a pinch.13. lemon oil is a natural degreaser for the ovenin addition to its scent benefits, lemon essential oil is a great degreaser and can be an excellent tool to remove stubborn grease stains naturally, says rogers.spray a mixture of one cup water, one cup vinegar and lemon essential oil onto your stovetop and simply wipe clean. for tougher stains, sprinkle baking soda first, then spray and wipe. you can use the same technique to clean your oven  which will help prevent kitchen fires  many of which are caused by grease.14. baking soda for a hands-off stovetop scrubcarol meerschaert, a registered dietitian and the owner of appleton home services, hails baking soda as a favorite stove-top cleaner.just pour it on, sprinkle with water, let sit one hour and wipe.15. remove pet hair with rubber gloveswhen your standard vacuum doesnt seem to get all your pets hair, rubber gloves will get the job done, says leanne stapf, vp of operations at the cleaning authority. just slide them on and rub down any areas that need extra cleaning. when rubber is pushed against fabric, it can generate elasticity to gather remaining pet hair. rinse the gloves under running water when youre done and the hair will unstick.16. eliminate foul odors from upholsteryjoshua miller, director of technical training of rainbow international, a neighborly company, recommends wiping out pet smells and other odors from upholstery by combining vinegar, water and your favorite essential oil (he vouches for lavender).furniture is often the culprit behind persistent unpleasant smells in the home, as upholstery often retains odors, miller notes. pre-test the solution on an inconspicuous location and allow to dry to test for colorfastness before using on the rest of the upholstery.if all is good, then spray the mixture on the rest of the upholstery, and once dry, vacuum the area.17. spruce up the mattress with baking soda &amp; vinegarwe tend to wash our bedding regularly, but we cant exactly throw our mattress in the washing machine. fortunately, we can keep it clean with our kitchen essential.its important to clean your mattress often to avoid dust mites, dead skin cells, etc, says stapf. for stain removal especially, try spraying the mattress with vinegar and sprinkle baking soda over the top. you can place a towel over the area and let it sit for one to two hours. then take your vacuum and go over the mattress for a final clean.18. dust electronics with coffee filterscoffee filters are useful items to keep around your living room and office, not only in the kitchen, says stapf. they are perfect for clearing dust from tv screens, computer monitors and any other screens around the home, without leaving behind any fibers like towels do.19. clean ceiling fans with a pillowcaseinstead of using a rag to clean your ceiling fan, which usually results in dust falling onto your furniture and floors, try using your pillowcase, stapf says. slip it in between the fan blades and swipe one at a time.20. dust window blinds with old socksblinds often have multiple sides and shapes, so they can sometimes be a hassle to clean, stapf notes. with this simple and kid-friendly hack, it doesnt have to be! take 50/50 vinegar and water mixture with an old clean sock, swipe the sock over each section and the embedded dust and dirt will come right off your blinds.21. use the dishwasher to clean hair brushes, flip flops and moreif you only use your dishwasher to clean dishes, you arent using it to its full potential, asserts stapf. take a look at this list of things you can safely wash in the dishwasher:rubber flip-flops, canvas sneakers and baseball capsmakeup brushesnon-electrical plastic and rubber kids toyscontacts lens casemouth guardshair brushes and combsshower headsplastic and metal garden toolsrefrigerator shelvesmore cleaning tipshow often you should clean your home, according to sciencethe best spring cleaning products, according to the proswhy the 20/10 method can change the way you cleanhow often to replace everything in your bathroom, bedroom and kitchenwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

after years of offering an ever-expanding menu of perks to their cardholders, several major credit card companies are going in the opposite direction  eliminating or reducing the value of some of these extras.one of the major reasons for using a credit card  aside from fraud protection and any rewards you might get  is the buffet of free benefits available, such as price protection, extended warranty coverage, flight insurance and trip cancellation coverage.but now, some of those extras are being dropped. discover did its roll-back in february, chase made changes in june and citis cutbacks take effect at the end of july. industry analysts expect more card companies to follow suit.credit card issuers are always tinkering to see what people like  whats working and whats not, said matt schulz, senior industry analyst at creditcards.com. what were seeing is the elimination of some perks, like price protection and return protection, that have been around a long time, but arent necessarily all that popular. and when a perk isnt used that often and it costs the issuer money, the perk may not stay around for very long.when it comes to offering rewards and benefits, the prevailing theory had been more is better. but that strategy doesnt work when so many cards offer the same features.a report by market strategies international concluded that the arms race to offer more benefits is not an effective solution for winning and retaining card users. the report, published earlier this year, found:most people (80 percent) are unclear about the benefits that come with their primary credit card.more than half (52 percent) said they know little or nothing about the added features.consumers want a card that has no annual fee, offers cash back and has a low interest rate.mike berinato, vice president of research and consulting at market strategies international, expects more credit card companies to reduce their perks.most people (80 percent) are unclear about the benefits that come with their primary credit card and more than half (52 percent) \"know little or nothing\" about the added features.its smart business, berinato told nbc news better. the credit card companies are not getting more cardholders this way and they want to save money by not offering benefits that nobody is using.heres a look at the changes that have or are about to take place at discover, citi and chase.discoveras of feb. 28, discover cards no longer provide these five benefits:return guaranteepurchase protectionextended warranty protectionauto rental insuranceflight accident insurancebrittney mitchell with discover public relations, said the company regularly evaluates cardmember benefits to ensure that we are meeting or exceeding our cardmembers current needs and expectations. the changes were made because of prolonged low usage, she said in a statement to nbc news better.chasein april, chase removed price protection and return protection on its united explorer credit card. it also lowered trip cancellation coverage. chase said it made these changes because only a small percentage of cardmembers were taking advantage of these benefits. they were replaced, chase said, with benefits that were more valuable for all cardholders, including the opportunity for the vast majority of our cardmembers to earn more miles every month.chase is in the process of notifying its customers, including those who have its highly-rated and popular chase sapphire reserve card, about the changes that will take place on aug. 26. here are the major ones:price protection is eliminated for all chase branded cards.return protection will no longer be offered for the chase freedom, freedom unlimited, sapphire, sapphire preferred, ink plus or ink preferred cards.chase freedom visa signature cardholders will no longer have lost luggage reimbursement and travel accident insurance. trip cancellation/interruption insurance is now lowered from a maximum of $5,000 to $1,500 for each covered person per trip. chase says this is being done to standardize the benefits for its freedom, freedom unlimited, visa platinum and signature cards.in a statement to nbc news better, lauren ryan, communications director for chase card services said: \"we are always evaluating our products to offer a great mix of rewards, benefits and experiences that provide the most value to our customers  and those they tell us they value most. in order to do so we may need to occasionally retire lesser used benefits.citi cardshere are some of the key changes that are effective on july 29:some cards, including double cash and simplicity will no longer offer roadside assistance dispatch service and travel &amp; emergency assistance.the citi/aadvantage bronze card will no longer offer lost baggage protection.the 90-day return protection no longer covers firearms, tires, jewelry, furniture or appliances.citi price rewind (the service that searches online for a lower price than you paid for that item and refunds the difference) drops from a maximum of $500 per item and $2,500 per year to $200 per item and a maximum of $1,000 a year. price rewind no longer applies to lower prices found at warehouse clubs where theres a membership fee.trip cancellation &amp; interruption protection drops to $1,500 per trip and $5,000 per calendar year from $3,000 per person per trip with no annual cap for some cards, including double cash and simplicity. and this coverage is now limited to you and your family members. for other cards with an annual fee, trip cancellation will change to $5,000 per trip from $5,000 per person per trip and coverage will be limited to you and your family members.in a statement to nbc news better, jennifer bombardier, vice president of public affairs for citi global cards, said: citi continuously evaluates our products to ensure that associated benefits best meet the needs of our customers. as such, we are making changes to select credit card protection benefits effective july 29, 2018, so that we can continue providing key benefits that our customers use and value most at no additional cost.american express goes the opposite directionamerican express recently notified cardholders that it will improve price protection and extended warranty protection starting august 1.price protection coverage will be increased from 90 to 120 days. extended warranty protection is being greatly enhanced:if the original manufacturers warranty is less than two years, amex will match the length of that warranty.if the original manufacturers warranty is between two and five years, amex will increase coverage to provide two additional years.credit card perks can save moneyyou may not choose which cards to have in your wallet based on its perks, but if the credit card company is giving you something for free, you might as well take advantage of it.and some of the benefits being offered  airport lounge access, cellphone protection, lost luggage protection, trip interruption or cancellation coverage, roadside assistance and payment of tsa precheck fees  can save you some serious money.if you havent done it in a while  or ever  go to your card issuers website and take a look at the free benefits. there might be something there thats right for you.how to save more moneyhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayshow to save more money in 201813 easy ways to save money every dayhow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

matthew hussey says his professional mission is to help you find love. though his books and youtube channel tend to focus on the affairs of the heart of millennial men and women looking for love in an increasingly complicated digital age, the 31-year-old brit says he likes giving dating and relationship advice simply because it appeals to everyone. \"there is literally no one on earth who isnt interested in relationship dynamics, or how to meet someone special. or if theyve already met someone special, how to make that relationship as good as it can be. its a universal subject,\" hussey says.in fact, hussey believes the things we want most from our relationship remain the same from the first date to \"i do\" to binge watching netflix  on a boring saturday night. we sat down with the love guru to find out what he knows about keeping the spark alive  and how to reignite it.this interview was edited for clarity.better: what are we really looking for in a relationship?hussey: phew, big question. i think people dont want be alone. ultimately, we want to feel connected. we want to feel like there is someone who actually sees us in the world. thats the big thing: to be seen. how many people actually feel seen?that quote in avatar: \"i see you.\" theres something really powerful about that. because when we feel seen, we feel accepted. we feel acknowledged for who we are. and very few times in our life do we feel seen. but we have the potential, the hope of that, in a wonderful relationship.better: does that need to be seen change over time?hussey: i dont think the idea of being seen changes in its importance. i think its always true. when relationships start to have problems, its almost always because we dont feel seen by that person anymore. you can have someone in a 20-year marriage, and they felt more understood by their partner ten years ago than they do today. we assume our partners arent growing. our partners are growing. theyre changing. theyre evolving. the mistake is thinking that theyre not.i cant say i know you this year because i knew you three years ago. i have to be getting to know you all the time. thats what it is to truly see someone. i still need to be curious. ten years into a marriage i should still be asking you, \"what are your goals?\" if i assume its the same stuff from three years ago, then im not truly seeing you. so i dont think that urge to be seen changes. but i think we take that for granted if weve been together long enough. familiarity isnt the same thing as true understanding.better: how do you keep the fizz from fizzling?hussey: people have to understand, and one of my good friends, esther perel, talks about this in her book, \"mating in captivity\", there is a big difference between love and desire. love is something where were coming together. were getting closer. were becoming one.and when you think about it, early on in a relationship, everything is a gravitational pull towards being close. but desire is the other component we need in a relationship. desire exists in the space between two people. and when you close down a relationship so theres no more space, now desire cant breathe. so it gets suffocated.and that happens in long-term relationships. you have a marriage that breaks down often, not because theres a lack of love, but because theres a lack of desire. and so the tricky part is we have to do what seems completely unnatural, which is to sometimes grow ourselves, or do something that helps our partner see us as mysterious again. and it could be something simple. it doesnt have to be taking time away from your partner. it could be your partners never known you to dance, and tonight you take a salsa class. just enough for your partner to go, \"huh?\" now all of a sudden your partners like, \"theres something different about you today.\"better: what is this \"space between\" you keep talking about?hussey: love is closeness. desire is what creates closeness, right? because the more we desire someone, the more we want to bring them closer. but desire is created in the space between two people. its the mystery of getting to know someone.love is \"i know you.\" desire is \"i want to know you.\" so its understanding those little mechanisms that make us still mysterious, even to someone that weve known our whole lives. and thats not just true of an intimate relationship. its true of our brothers, our sisters, our mothers ... our kids.people in their relationships, they think, \"ive got my person now. i did it. i won. now im going to focus on my job.\" youre an idiot. because that [relationship] will get average, and it will die if you take that approach. your relationship has to be a place where there is zero arrogance. no sense of entitlement. nothing you take for granted. it has to be a place where you completely kill your ego and come every day saying, \"how can i be great for you?\" and thats something people dont do.better: what are the signs that the space is closing?hussey: any time youre with your partner and you assume that you know everything about them is a dangerous point in the relationship. thats when people get complacent and comfortable.every day we should wake up and say, \"how do i impress my partner today? how could i be a little less predictable today?\" it could be simple stuff.people get so grandiose in their mind about what they need to do to shake up their relationship. if i call you beautiful, but then today instead of saying beautiful, which i say all the time, i say, \"you look hot today,\" just a change in language can make someone go, \"you never call me hot. thats different.\"although you may have said its forever, nothing is forever unless you actually commit to working on it every day.but if you have stopped asking the questions, \"how do i impress my partner?\" or \"how do i flirt with my partner today?\" now youre in trouble. because it means youre taking for granted that this relationship is forever. and although you may have said its forever, nothing is forever unless you actually commit to working on it every day.better: do you believe you can fall in love with someone \"all over again?\"hussey: it happens all the time. the saddest part about it is often you see it in moments where damage has already been done, or its too late. or after theyve broken up. someone will break up with somebody, and after three months apart they suddenly get enough distance to see the space between them again, and to see them as who they are again, instead of just, \"this is my person.\"and seeing that person in that light again  snap!  creates that same instinct that they had first time round. if you want someone to see you new again, remember what it was you did at the beginning of the relationship. you probably had hobbies. you probably had things that made you independently you.its all about those things that we did in the beginning, and working them into a relationship. the key to an amazing relationship is never stop flirting with your partner. but people do. proust said the the journey of discovery lies not in seeking new landscapes, but in seeing with new eyes. too many times in relationships people are seeking a new landscape when what they really need to be doing is seeing with new eyes.better: why do we stop flirting with our partners?hussey: i think people stop flirting with their partner because people are lazy. theyre not doing the extra 10 percent that would make their relationship great. i dont have false modesty about this. in every relationship im ever in, i never want to be normal. im always going to want to give that extra 10 percent. how do i not make it about me? how do i make it about you instead? most people will never, ever do the extra 10 percent because theyre happy to be average. thats okay. but if you do the average amount, youre going to have an average relationship.better: what are some ways we can use social media and other forms of communication to do 10 percent more?hussey: these days we have many different ways of communicating. its not just verbally, its through text or many of us are communicating with our partners through social media ... liking a photo they have, or commenting on something.but no one form of communication is an evil. its just how we use it. and sometimes people make the mistake of saying, \"im not a texter so im not going to do that. im more of a being on the phone person.\" well if youre saying that, then you dont really understand the value of being able to ping someone a message during their day. you can shoot someone a message in their day saying, \"i cannot get you off my mind right now.\"if i text you all the time, write me a letter today. someone takes the time to write out something in pen, its going to mean something different. it matters. the intensity is different. or if you always send flowers, do something else. figure out a new way to show them appreciation or affection. its about changing up the modality, and the way that we communicate with someone.i had a pet hamster when i was ten years old. i used to clean the cage and make it all neat and tidy. one day, my dad had tipped over the hamster wheel. and the hamster was just kind of walking around and staring at the wheel, trying to figure out what had happened. and i was annoyed, because i liked everything in these neat and tidy lines. i looked at my dad and i said, \"whyd you do that?\"he said, \"i just wanted to give him something to think about.\" and it never left me. i had made it the same day every day of this hamsters life. and maybe the wheel being on its side wasnt the best thing ever, but it was still something to think about. and sometimes we have to give our partners something to think about.make them think a little. do something different. do something out of the ordinary for you. show them appreciation in a different way. tip over the wheel and give them a new game to play today. thats how you keep a relationship alive.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimehow the simple act of holding hands brought this couple closer than everwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

every 30 days, try something new.its a simple weight loss rule aime lutkin embraced after trying the whole30 diet. the freelance writer says the diet trend, which involves eradicating added sugar, alcohol, grains, legumes, dairy, baked goods and junk food from your diet for 30 days, helped her eliminate dairy from her plate without having to think about it.a lot of the things that i would overeat had dairy in them, so i was like, ill just stop doing dairy, lutkin told nbc news better.lutkin lost 10 pounds in only a month, she says.i managed to make it through the first 30 days  thats how long the whole30 lasts  and it was just a moment of willpower that i hadnt experienced in a long time, lutkin says.lutkin says she doesnt recommend the whole30 diet, which she describes as an extreme elimination diet. but after losing 10 pounds, she says she realized the benefits of experimenting with a new routine every 30 days, whether its a new diet trend or exercise regime.it was the first time i had gone down on the scale in years, she says. so i wanted to keep it going. i think seeing that little bit of progress made it feel possible, and once it felt possible, it felt doable, if that makes sense.lutkin says she also tried 30 days of the slow-carb diet, 30 days of weight training, and 30 days of biking. experimenting with different diet and exercise routines every month challenged her body in new ways and prevented her from getting bored, she says.after a year, she lost 45 pounds.maybe the first 6 months, like every month, [i] tried to set a goal for myself because it just made it a lot easier for me to just stick with things, she says.how it workslutkin says the weight loss method is effective because a month is long enough to see progress and short enough to make a commitment.i think, psychologically, it is very much easier to say, ok, im only going to do this for 30 days, than this is the thing im going to do every day for the rest of my life, and thats a very hard thing to grapple with, lutkin explains.if you have a sedentary lifestyle, for example, lutkin recommends making a goal to do something active each day for 45 minutes. every month, try something different. the first month you can go for a 45 minute walk each day, the next month you can switch to bike riding, followed by swimming the next. the change in routine will continuously reinvigorate weight loss by challenging your body in new ways and will give you something different to look forward to, says the writer.i think we are more in tune with the cycle of the month than we realize, says lutkin. for each month starting, it feels like a brand new thing, and then the month coming to a close, youre in a new place.make sure its fundont force yourself to run if you hate it. dont force yourself to eat salads every day if you hate salad. instead, lutkin advises doing activities and eating healthy foods you enjoy.i think we are more in tune with the cycle of the month than we realize. for each month starting, it feels like a brand new thing, and then the month coming to a close, youre in a new place.if youre like i am miserable every moment of this, it makes me really unhappy, it stresses me out, you cant do it, lutkin says. its not going to go anywhere. and i think we tend to think of taking care of ourselves as its supposed to be grueling and horrible, and it doesnt have to be.she also recommends making weight loss a group experience. for instance, you can plan exercise date nights with friends who are also trying to change their lifestyles, she says. if you dont have friends who are interested, there are plenty of weight loss support groups online, she says.i mean everyone is different, but if youve never tried it, i would definitely say try to do your weight loss practice or diet plan or exercise plan with other people, she says. because, also, you want to talk about it, and your friends dont want to hear about it, your family doesnt want to hear about it, but because its taking over a big chunk of your experience on a daily basis you just need to vent and discuss whats happening.dont think of weight loss as a cure alllosing weight feels great, says lutkin. but for her, it was about getting healthy through hard work, she says, not an obsession with looking good.physically i have a lot more energy, im a lot stronger, she says. i love going and doing exercise classes [more] than i did before because i feel like i can keep up with them and challenge myself in a way thats fun.lutkin warns that weight loss, however, isnt a magic cure to all sorts of things.but it can feel good to know that you can change yourself if you want to through slow and deliberate work, and that applies to all areas of life, its not just your body, lutkin concludes.how to kick start weight loss every 30 dayshow it works: every 30 days, try something new. whether its a new healthy diet trend or a new exercise regime, switching up your routine will prevent boredom and challenge your body in new ways.make sure its fun: dont force yourself to do things or eat things you dont enjoy. if you hate what youre doing, youre not likely to stick with it. if possible, make your weight loss journey a group experience with friends who will motivate you to stay on track.dont think of weight loss as a cure all: theres no magic solution to losing weight.weight loss should be about getting healthier, not an obsession with looking good.more weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

youll continue to receive all the tips and tricks to make the most of your time, your money, your body and your life.

after a bad breakup a few years ago, my ex spent the first few weeks of our split liking every photo i posted on instagram. while in theory it may sound nice to know that your ex is still interested (and looking) at what youre doing, in reality, seeing his handle pop-up again and again actually made me feel worse. they felt like pity likes to me  something he was doing to soften the blow. his potentially mindless double-tapping forced me to break our non-contact with a text; i felt pathetic asking him to knock it off. its just social media, right? so why did i care so much?i didnt know what to call it at the time, but in a recent piece for man repeller, writer anna lovine used the term orbiting to describe when a person leaves your life but still appears in your social media world  by watching your instagram stories and snapchats and even liking your facebook posts, theyre still in your orbit. as she describes it, youre close enough to see each other; far enough to never talk.after reading the article and finally having a concrete name for my experience, i discussed the trend with friends and found that most of them had experienced orbiting themselves, and not always from an ex-romantic partner. a few mentioned that theyd noticed friends and family members with whom theyd experienced a falling out were orbiting them  interacting with their social media without communicating in a real, meaningful way.my friend megan recently had an argument with her cousin, but says she still sees her name popping up on facebook and instagram. im sure well resolve it soon enough, but its just interesting to me that were not speaking right now, for real reasons, but shes still watching my instagram stories and liking pretty much everything i post, she says. maybe im overthinking it, but its definitely confusing.so why do we do this and are there any negative ramifications of being on the receiving end of this common behavior?why do people orbit eachother?if a relationship has been severed in real life, why do people feel the need to keep ties on social media? could it just be human nature? michelle crimins, ph.d., a clinical psychologist based in new york city, says that as social beings we have very voyeuristic and social tendencies. we are actually wired to gossip, so that part of it is huge. we used to only have tabloids, then reality tv. now, social media is reality tv for people we know. whats more salacious than that?a recent discussion with a friend confirmed this sentiment. in his opinion, we just cant help ourselves. its strange, but i think orbiting is something thats very hard for people not to do, he told me. its human nature to be curious about the people you used to be close with or have feelings for. all this digitally-created proximity makes it very hard to escape or ignore those very human tendencies. it becomes harder to move on.theres no denying human nature, but could orbiting be more than that?for some, keeping the lines of communication from closing completely may be a way of holding out hope: perhaps that good friend or family member you had a falling out with may see your orbiting as a sign you still care. while reaching out with a text or a call might feel like a bridge too far, watching instagram stories or liking a facebook post can serve as a small, positive gesture.but dr. crimins warns that reading too much into behavior like orbiting can be dangerous. people are so used to looking at and interacting with social media, that a lot of this stuff is just automatic, she says. someones likes or views are not necessary signaling anything. shes quick to add that the most challenging aspect of discussing social media with her clients is that every situation really is different, and without speaking to the person directly, youll have a hard time answering that lingering why? in your head.taking it one step further, lovine posits that it may be a strategic power move, especially when it comes to orbiting former romantic partners. orbiting can be a power move when the person doing it knows full well that you will see their name at the top of your list of views. its a way to let a former flame know that youre still tepidly interested, and allows you to keep one foot in the door, so to speak, to keep it from closing. youre aware that you will at least cross their mind when that like pops up, even if its for a fleeting moment, and it likely will make you wonder: why is this person still interested in what im doing?people want to stay relevant in your head, says crimins. its a way to remind you that they exist. it could also be a subconscious invitation like, hey, im here, in hopes that theyll get reciprocal attention.how orbiting affects our mental healthwere so used to seeing likes and notifications pop up that its almost like white noise. but its important to be aware of how orbiting can be affecting us emotionally even if we arent conscious of it.the mixed messages are confusing. crimins explains that its the mixed messaging of orbiting that proves to be the most upsetting for her clients. its not black and white, she says. these situations are so nuanced. people are constantly confused about how other people handle their social media and what it means to be connected to someone else. its hard to turn off the questions about why people are behaving the way they are.those mixed messages result in mixed feelings. for some its upsetting, some people are flattered and for some it keeps their hopes up, says crimins. but in general, we should be checking [in with ourselves] about how it feels to be on social media. just because were all doing it, doesnt mean it feels good to everyone.case in point: my friend amanda recently decided to block a former flame when she realized his orbiting was preventing her from moving on. it sounds harmless, but it creates a false sense of investment, she says. you become convinced that they care because theyre watching. but really, its so low-effort. it is the least someone can do to maintain a presence in my life. but it works! i had to cut this guy off because the orbiting made me feel like he was still interested and created this false sense of intimacy. curiosity is not intimacy. he was probably just bored, and yet it drove me crazy.it can encourage confirmation basis. according to crimins, orbiting can also trigger a deeply wired psychological concept called confirmation bias. essentially, if we are feeling a certain way  like we think that a fight or a breakup happened for a specific reason  we will go onto someones social media profile to confirm what we already believe; looking for clues to support those feelings. when i saw my ex liking my photos on instagram, i assumed that he felt sorry for me. it made me feel pathetic. with every like, i felt more and more deeply convinced that i was right; he did feel sorry for me. on the flip side, amanda allowed herself to believe her ex cared because he was watching her instagram stories. neither of us ever found out the reason behind our exes actions  but they did hinder our ability to move on and heal.we may become complacent in setting boundaries. the trend of orbiting seems to highlight a bigger, more fundamental problem people face after a falling out: setting boundaries. why are we being so complacent about setting boundaries? asks crimins. in an age when anything can be made public, we have to have better boundaries. setting that clear boundary can be difficult; a lesson i learned firsthand when my orbiter triggered feelings of self-doubt.as bad as i felt, my hope that his likes meant he wasnt ready to close the door kept me from cutting him off. i wanted him to see my posts, too: to see that i was doing great (traveling, looking cute, being social) and realize he was missing out. i was performing for him; everything i posted had his eyes in mind. at first, his likes made me feel curious, and slightly rewarded for my try hard behavior. but when they didnt evolve to any real communication, my curiosity crumbled into anger and grief. it felt ridiculous that his most-likely innocuous behavior was causing me actual pain, but once i admitted that to myself and set a boundary, i was able to make tangible strides towards moving on.it can make healing harder. for some, the lack of setting clear boundaries after a split or a falling out may make healing nearly impossible. the expression out of sight out of mind holds true, says crimins. its an expression for a reason. but with social media its really amplified because if say, you see someone on the street by accident, they might not be at their best. but on instagram, you only see them at their best. you get the highlights, and what youre seeing is curated specifically to make the people who are seeing it feel jealous. the emotions that crop up when you see someone after a falling out are always difficult, but they are seriously amplified by the way we present ourselves on social media.what to do when youre being orbitedonly you can decide if being orbited is hindering your ability to find closure in a failed relationship. but if it is, crimins has some steps you can take to work towards healing and closure  and establishing healthier boundaries online.dont read into it too much. the truth of the matter is, youll likely never know exactly why someone is behaving the way they are on social media. our confirmation bias will usually step in and run the narrative for us, so doing our best not to read into those likes and views is the healthiest course to take. if you cant stop reading into those actions (or thinking about the person making them), thats a sign that it might be time to bite the bullet and establish your boundaries.consider blocking or unfollowing. you have the power to decide who you see and interact with. these decisions dont even have to be permanent, says crimins. its about checking in with yourself and seeing how you feel in that moment. if you start off being okay and then transition to feeling [negatively], you might need to take a break from being connected. she notes that if blocking feels too extreme and might be more damaging to a relationship you hope to repair, muting that person (which hides their activity without unfollowing or notifying the person) is a less drastic, but still helpful, action that can be undone at any time.ask yourself: am i guilty too? chances are, you may also be guilty of watching the story of a past fling or liking that post of an estranged friend on vacation. but how do you know if its a problem? a strong warning sign is if youre keeping your behavior a secret, says crimins. when youre doing something you wouldnt want someone else to see or know about, its probably not good for you. she likens the experience of orbiting to consuming junk food. so often, people do things without paying attention to how it feels. junk food looks good, and it tastes good, but sometimes you feel terrible after you eat it. in the same way, when youre orbiting an ex or an ex-friend, if you dont take note of how you feel after, youll keep doing it over and over again, and it becomes a habit. then youre feeling depressed, lonely, insecure or jealous. we need to pay attention to our feelings, so that when the negative effects start to outweigh the positive, were able to stop.examine how social media in general makes you feel. if you find yourself frequently thinking about online interactions or they are triggering negative emotions, try taking a break from social media and see how it feels to be cut off from that addicting reality tv loop. crimins notes that breaks from technology are beneficial for everyone, but especially those who have anxieties or upsetting feelings that seem to stem from social media. she suggests asking yourself the motivation behind your time spent on social media. is it out of habit? is it fomo? are there people still in your orbit that bring up negative emotions? a social media detox can help you answer these questions, leaving you better equipped to heal and move on. and if you miss the likes or views from a certain someone, consider inviting them out for a cup of coffee  it may be a relationship worth mending irl.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimehow the simple act of holding hands brought this couple closer than everwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

name: sean andersonage: 46residence: ponca city, okjob: radio personalitymarital status: divorced, father of two adult daughters and grandfather of 4peak weight: 505 poundscurrent weight: 205 poundssean anderson remembers the day he decided he had to do something about his weight. he was 36 years old and, despite a lifetime of dieting, he weighed 505 pounds. his blood pressure was out of control, his legs were swollen and he had trouble breathing. his health problems were forcing him to miss work, even with a sedentary job.i went to the doctor in june 2008 and she described to me in graphic detail what my high blood pressure was doing to my internal organs. she told me, if you leave this office and drop dead while walking across the parking lot to your vehicle, none of us would be the least bit surprised.he called his wife, irene, and said, this is it. it changes right now. when he returned home his wife and two daughters met him in the driveway, crying and hugging him. it was like something straight out of a hallmark movie, he says.his motivation lasted three days.after a high-stress day at work, he bought a half gallon of ice cream on the way home. i did what i had done my entire life. i turned to food. after that doctors visit and the emotional reunion declaring that it starts right now, three days later i was on the couch with the ice cream. irene and the girls walked in and found me doing that and there were no words. they couldnt believe it.accountability is keyanderson agonized for months and tried to figure out what he could do differently. he decided he needed a big measure of accountability and support. so, on september 15, 2008, he launched his blog, the daily diary of a winning loser. every night, he shared his feelings and experiences in writing.he set a daily budget of 1,500 calories and forbade borrowing from the next day (in hindsight he thinks he could have gone up to 1,900 calories and still have lost weight). within that calorie limit, anything he wanted to eat was fair game. in the beginning it was nothing for me to have taco bell or even mcdonalds, he says. in fact, if i got to the end of the day with a few hundred calories left, just for the heck of it i would get a snickers bar and then write in my blog, almost bragging, that i was losing weight and i had a snickers bar.despite starting with a nothing-is-off-limits approach, he soon realized that if he tweaked his food choices he could be more satisfied with better-quality food. he started cooking more and eating less fast food, still sticking to his calorie budget.the first step is the hardestanderson also started exercising. his first walk lasted less than five minutes, but in less than a month he was walking a mile. eventually he joined the y and expanded his cardio routine to elliptical workouts, treadmill walking and jogging, and playing racquetball by himself, against the wall.his plan worked. after a year and a half he reached his goal weight of 230 pounds. his blog gained momentum. he wrote a book, transformation road, that chronicled his weight-loss success. he spoke publicly about his weight loss on the radio and for local hospitals. he still ate some refined sugar, but he maintained his goal weight for a year and a half.the weight returnsand yet, things were not perfect. theres another whole side to this. its something that goes much deeper. one of the things i thought was that when i hit 230 my life was going to be amazing in every way, shape and form. i thought my career would be better and my marriage would be better. i hit 230 and i still wasnt happy. it was such a huge letdown, he says.his marriage ended around the time he hit his goal weight, and, later, a tough breakup with a girlfriend sent him reaching for food for comfort again. he regained 164 pounds. he stopped writing his blog. he hated leaving home, since his weight gain was so noticeable and so many people in his community recognized him.his weight does not define himanderson had what he calls his epiphany on may 15, 2014. a speeding ticket the previous day forced him to renew his expired drivers license. his old license photo was taken when he weighed 230 pounds, and his weight had ballooned up to almost 400 pounds.i hated the picture. i was overwhelmed with negative emotions. then thoughts started flooding in  why would i allow the shape of my face to determine my self-worth? i am a great person regardless of how big my face is or how much i weigh. i would never treat another human being the way i treated myself. all of the positive things that i love about myself are the same at 500 pounds or at a lighter weight. i decided i could not put my happiness on something that fluctuates.i had a new understanding and appreciation for who i was. i was no longer going to get my self-worth from my weight.he made a list of things that stayed the same regardless of his weight  talents, likes and dislikes, hobbies, his love for people. focusing on those things was like watering a flower in the middle of the desert  it starts flourishing, he says. i had a new understanding and appreciation for who i was. i was no longer going to get my self-worth from my weight. it was a complete change in perspective, he says.abstaining from addictive foodshe recognized that he was addicted to refined sugar. that recognition helped him shift from a diet mentality to a recovery mentality, and he gave up refined sugar completely  the same way an alcoholic would give up alcohol. he also restarted a calorie budget, this time allotting himself 1,700 calories a day.he photographed everything he ate and logged it on myfitnesspal. he tweeted the photos and listed the ingredients. i upped my accountability to what many would consider extreme. i didnt do that with my initial weight loss, he says.he shifted his diet to mostly one-ingredient foods  avocados, apples, chicken breasts  with exceptions for things like ezekiel bread, which doesnt contain refined sugar or flour. he doesnt eat things he doesnt like, though. salad, broccoli and cauliflower-crust pizza  just arent part of his plan. but hes developed a taste for avocado, sweet potatoes and asparagus.he recommitted to writing his blog every day. i came clean with my readers. i said, look. i gained back 164 pounds and it stops right now.he doubled down on building support connections. none of us do this alone. connecting directly and exchanging support with people in the same lifeboat makes a monumental difference, he says.seans typical daily mealsbreakfast: a blend of whole eggs and egg whites topped with a slice of cheese, a half avocado on ezekiel toast, and an apple on the side.lunch: a tostada made at work with crispy corn tostada shells, fat-free beans, salsa, and cheese, topped with lettuce, sour cream, and a half avocado.dinner: steak, chicken drumsticks or grilled fish with red-skin mashed potatoes or sweet potatoes.key for him is weighing the ingredients  he keeps digital food scales at home and work.getting to goal weight and beyondanderson lost the weight he gained and then some, and now maintains 205 pounds on his six-foot, three-inch frame  a weight he had passed at age 10. he has maintained this weight for over two and a half years now, with a 2,300 daily calorie budget. i dont want for anything. i eat well  light years better than i did before.he starts every day with meditation and prayer, two cups of water, 20 pushups and 20 squats, then he rewards himself with a cup of coffee. he visualizes how he wants his day to go in relation to his food plan.in order for me to maintain a healthy body weight i have to have a plan in place each day, he says. this is something i have to do for the rest of my life. i know im very capable of going back to 500 pounds, and it takes daily practice to prevent that.more weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

there is virtually no way to sugarcoat it. the past two and half years have been truly the worst, most traumatic and tragic time in my entire 47 years on earth. after filing for an unexpected divorce due to my husbands infidelity and dishonesty in early 2016, i endured a long divorce trial process and felt i hit the proverbial finish line in august 2017 when the judge smacked his gavel and announced i was officially divorced. my five kids and i sighed a resounding sigh of relief that days would only get better from there.unfortunately, that feeling was short lived. in fact, it was only the beginning of my familys literal and figurative trial. my elderly parents, and best friends, were first both hospitalized one month after the other, both in failing health. due to all the personal stress id been under, i contracted shingles (for the second time) on my face causing debilitating eye pain that continues today. my new car was stolen from my driveway in the middle of the night in suburban chicago and the police embarked on a 12-hour search to retrieve my car in the belly of the city. it seemed i had a black cloud over my head.and the worst thing happenedwhile all of this was going on, i tried to put things into perspective and keep the faith. my kids and i were safe and sound and i kept repeating to myself that this season soon would be over. i imagined life would resume to normal, whatever that means. then the worst thing imaginable happened. right before christmas 2017, my 86-year-old father and my dearest confidante (who held my hand every day in divorce court just months prior) unexpectedly developed sepsis and died. he was immediately and tragically gone from my life and i was devastated. the visceral pain i felt was unlike anything i could describe. following his death, i had to also witness the indescribable pain and grief of my sweet 85-year-old mother who just lost the man shed been sweethearts with for more than 67 years.in hopes of giving my mother some joy in such a dark time, we began to plan fun things to do to keep her mind and heart occupied; watching my children in the winter choral concert, a much-dreamt-about trip to the ocean for mom to feel the sand under her toes one more time, my childrens upcoming birthday celebrations and my eldest childs upcoming high school graduation in may. i tried to offer my mother opportunities to give her hope while she suffered a deep depression caused by such a massive and sudden loss of my father. just three short months after my dad died, in march 2018, my mom complained of shortness of breath and i immediately called 911 and got her transported to the nearest hospital. she was declining rapidly and told me she did not want to go just yet  she pleaded with me to do everything i could to keep her alive and able to do the things we had hoped and planned to do together. on march 20, 2018, my mother also died in the icu. the world as i knew it was swirling around me. in just two years i had lost my husband of 18 years, my dreams for the future with him, a large sum of money carved out for my childrens college education and most importantly, my two parents. how could anyone survive such compounding grief and loss? why was i being put through this earthly test? my circle of colleagues, family and friends no longer even knew what to say to comfort me. how could i survive such loss?you have to keep on living, even if everything seems to be against youwith millions of people shocked and grieving the sudden and tragic deaths of designer kate spade and culinary legend anthony bourdain due to suicide, its important for others to stop and take stock of the value of life and why its so vital to keep on living even when everything seems to be against you. from very personal experience both now and in my younger years, i can attest that there have been a few days that i simply didnt want to go on. i wished a giant lightning bolt or a car crash would just wipe me off this earth to avoid the massive emotional pain i was in. however, through my own faith in god and the willingness to be vulnerable and ask and accept help from others, i struggled through many weeks and months of depression and can say that ive come through to the other side with a sense of peace and deep gratitude. yes gratitude. i am now, more than ever, at a place where i can see the gifts that have come from the ashes of my many adversities. im also incredibly empathetic to others who have struggled with lifelong battles with clinical battles with mental illness that expands well beyond my own personal experiences connected to high school bullying, postpartum depression, divorce and death.no matter the initial root cause, i offer the following tips for anyone who is suffering through the loss of a loved one or relationship or anyone considering harming themselves. i share what ive gleaned in an effort to help others gain perspective, support and, most importantly, hope.1. youre not aloneone of the biggest lessons i can offer to individuals suffering loss of any kind is the fact that youre truly not alone. so many people offered up to me their own personal stories of loss and how they dealt with it. ive spent many late nights reading other articles and stories about grief and divorce. ive chosen to share my story or my worries with others that have walked in my shoes before me and they have given me great advice, empathy and tips to get me to a better place.2. take it one day at a timein the midst of my trauma, i decided to only worry about the day i was living in. i couldnt change the past and i couldnt control the future, as much as i wanted to. in the beginning of my divorce ordeal, i worried about how i was going to pay for five children going to college in the next four years. more recently, i was anxious about being alone without parents or a husband to provide me with support. instead of letting myself panic, i decided to just focus on positive efforts each day to get me to the safety of my bed each night. after some time, i started to find out it got easier and easier as the days, weeks and months went on.3. dont worry about stigmasits okay to ask for help. its more than okay to seek medical treatment or therapy. there is nothing wrong with you or embarrassing about taking anti-depressants or anti-anxiety medications to help you transition through a tough patch in life or even take medication for your entire life. therapy has proven to be very helpful to me to gain more perspective and understanding on how to direct my pain into positive channels like volunteering and spending even more time with my kids. as ive aged, ive learned that no one is paying that much attention to my own struggles; they are more focused on their own.despite what you might see externally, everyone is running their own race and fighting their own private battles.4. grief isnt permanentwhen youre deep in the mires of it, you dont understand or comprehend you will ever feel happy again. i definitely believed that i would never find joy when i was at my lowest and saddest point. yet, now ive now gained a new appreciation for what grief teaches you. life is for learning valuable lessons to pass on to others, making other peoples lives better or happier. it is also for refining your values and where you spend your precious time. for your own sanity, lose the self-consciousness or concern about what others may or may not think of you.despite what you might see externally, everyone is running their own race and fighting their own private battles. we must not judge one another. there is no timeline for suffering or grief. some people live with it for years. but it robs them of joy. dont waste your life wishing it was different. there is always hope and the opportunity for new beginnings. ive learned firsthand that you just embrace where you are today and keep on living and loving.kathleen kenehan henson is a contributor to nbc news better and the founder and ceo of agency h5, an award-winning public relations and integrated marketing firm based in chicago. she is the mother of 5 children ages 18-9 and was recently featured in the new book kindness in leadership (gay haskins, 2018). 

spring cleaning season is in serious effect: by now youve more than likely spring cleaned like a pro, kondo-ed your drawers and closets, and ditched all your unwanted stuff. but when was the last time you cleaned out your fridge? yeah, we havent gotten to that yet, either.people blow off cleaning appliances because they dont have the time, or it takes too long to clean the grime thats built up because they didnt have the time, says becky rapinchuk, a cleaning expert who goes by clean mama, and author of the books simply clean and the organically clean home.to help get us back on track, weve rounded up a few experts (including a microbiologist!) to remind us which germs and bacteria can build up on or in common everyday appliances (if we dont get cracking), explain how often we should be cleaning them, and tell us what to use when we do.dishwashersphilip tierno jr., ph.d, clinical professor of microbiology and pathology at nyu school of medicine, says germs, most often mold fungi and some harmless environmental bugs tend to accumulate along the seal of a dishwasher. to stave them off, wipe the seal down weekly with a mild bleach solution (1-part bleach, 9-parts water). melissa maker, host of the youtube channel clean my space, says the outside of your dishwasher should be wiped down on the outside each time you wipe down the cabinets  once a week. as far as the inside goes: replace the filter and put a cup of baking soda on the top rack of the dishwasher and leave it overnight, this will absorb any odors. the next morning put about a cup of vinegar into the bottom of the dishwasher and run it on the hottest cycle, she says.washing machinesstudies have shown that fecal germs, like e. coli and other intestinal bacteria, and some viruses (including the rotavirus, noroviruses and hepatitis a) can survive in washing machines especially if a bleach or germicide is not used with the wash, says tierno. to keep such unsavory bacteria at bay, he recommends running an empty cycle with just water and a cup of bleach weekly, or bi-weekly, depending on how often you use the machine. newer washing machines have a germicidal cycle, which is also effective, says tierno.dryersgenerally, dryers provide high heat but may not get hot enough to kill germs that cling to your clothes, warns tierno. the cleaner the washer, the less bacteria youll transmit to your dryer. some newer dryers have a germicidal cycle, which is well worth running weekly to keep them clean.humidifiersthese devices can harbor water-borne legionella bacteria (as in legionnaires disease), which can be present in potable water. unlike most bacteria, they can survive in plain tap water for as long as 140 days to a year and can even survive in hot water at temperatures of 150 degrees fahrenheit, says tierno. to keep your humidifier clean, use a brush and soapy bleach solution to gently scrub it out once a week.air conditionerstierno says acs are great at controlling particulates in air  like dust mites and fungal spores  as well as a variety of other allergens and particles. besides cooling, the removal or reduction of allergens is the main task of an ac system. therefore, it is imperative to change filters when they become clogged, as well as use the appropriate type filter, he recommends. otherwise, wipe down the surface of it with an antibacterial wipe once in a while. also, tierno says its super important to clean up any water that collects in or around your air conditioner before fungal mold builds up, which can really be a problem for those who are immunosuppressed or have allergies.stovesstoves tend to be somewhat neglected. splatters or spills of food that arent promptly cleaned up can become a good medium for the growth of microbes, says tierno. yuck! to prevent microbes, maker says stovetops should be cleaned after each use by wiping them down with an all-purpose cleaner and a microfiber cloth. wipe the front of the unit down once a week. the inside of the oven should be cleaned every 3 months, or when you notice burnt on food or smoke when you are baking, says maker. most ovens are self-cleaning, just make sure you remove the racks and clean those separately and follow the manufacturers directions for best cleaning practices.microwave ovenstierno says, in terms of germs, the biggest problem with your microwave is the door handle. grab an antibacterial wipe and sanitize the outside every time you put food in it  the kitchen is a hotbed of cross-contamination any time you make a meal. one must clean the oven chamber with soap and water periodically (dependent upon usage), especially if there are splashes, and also because there are many cold spots that dont reach high temps that can kill germs, says tierno.another way to clean the inside: in her blog, rapinchuk recommends cutting up one lemon and placing it in four cups of water in a small glass microwavable bowl. run it until the water boils, 3-5 minutes, allowing the steam to loosen the grease, drips and grime. use a sponge or microfiber cloth to wipe the inside clean.refrigeratorslike it or not, your fridge should be wiped down and sanitized at least once a week, for it is a hotbed of germs. tierno says raw meats, veggies, eggs and cheeses, and cold cuts, soft cheeses, pate, coleslaw and hot dogs can harbor listeria, which actually thrives at refrigeration temps and is dangerous for elderly, immunosuppressed people and pregnant women. plus, it is a humid space where fungal mold grows. wipe up spills on the spot (and the handle, if appropriate) with antibacterial wipes, and give the outside a good wipe-down with whatever the manufacturer says is safe to use on the exterior.before you know it, youll have a kitchen clean enough to eat off of  as well as eat in.more spring cleaning tipshow often you should clean your home, according to sciencethe best spring cleaning products, according to the proswhy the 20/10 method can change the way you cleanhow often to replace everything in your bathroom, bedroom and kitchenwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

the quest for a better body is one that many of us are on, especially this time of year when beach days, pool parties and weddings crowd our calendars. though our culture places cumbrous and often unrealistic expectations around physique (especially for women), theres nothing abnormal about wanting to shed a few pounds or make other changes that we think can improve our appearance; but there is a line that can be crossed.its one thing to stand before the mirror once in a while and think youd prefer a trimmer waistline; its another to stand before the mirror daily and mercilessly judge your body (or an aspect of it) as problematic to the point where it impacts how you function.this is where things become not normal, and may be indicative of body dysmorphic disorder (bdd)  a condition that is far more common than you may think.obsessing over and trying to fix a small or non-existent flaw\"bdd impacts anywhere from 5 to 7 million americans,\" says catherine silver, a licensed clinical social worker specializing in the treatment of eating disorders and body image issues. bdd is characterized by an obsession with a perceived flaw or defect on ones body. this perceived flaw is either non-existent to minor and is typically focused on a specific body part or area such as the size of someones nose, a certain patch of skin, their hair or a scar.there are usually compulsive behaviors in an attempt to fix or hide the perceived flaw, including excessive mirror-checking, skin-picking or elaborate grooming rituals, silver says. these obsessions and ritualistic behaviors ultimately get in the way of the persons life and the person struggles to focus on other things aside from their perceived flaw.the flaw has to be slight or non-existentbut what about a so-called real flaw? for instance, lets say you have teeth that are extremely crooked such that your dentist has suggested braces or implants and youre frequently agonizing over their appearance. do you have bdd? based on this information alone the answer is no.the dysmorphia component of bdd precludes someone who actually has the flaw as they see it, dr. carla marie manly, a clinical psychologist, tells nbc news better. dysmorphia [presents] an inability to see thing correctly, if you [are obsessing over] a nose twice as large as a normal nose, or a bmi 30 pounds over, then you are no longer dysmorphic; by definition, the flaw has to be slight or non-existent.dr. kate craigen, clinical director of binge eating and bariatric support services at walden behavioral care points to the dsm-5 to sum up the main symptoms of bdd:preoccupation with one or more perceived defects or flaws in physical appearance that are not observable or appear slight to othersrepetitive behaviors (mirror-checking, reassurance-seeking from others) or mental acts (comparing appearance to others) in response to the appearance concernsthe concerns cause significant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other areas of functioningthe concerns are not better explained by an eating disorder diagnosisbdd doesnt mean you hate your body, per sethe severity of your disdain for whatever perceived flaw really depends, and you dont have to think your body (or an aspect of it) is absolutely grotesque in order to have bdd.people with bdd may describe the area of preoccupation on a spectrum of looking not quite right to hideous and disgusting, dr. craigen explains.bdd affects men and women almost equallybdd can be about any part of your body, and contrary to what some may have assumed (myself included) perceived fat or flab is only one of many types of bdd fixation. additionally, bdd affects men and women almost equally.current estimates suggest that 2.5 percent of american females and 2.2 percent of american males struggle with bdd, says dr. craigen. those prevalence rates are higher in settings that are focused on changing something about appearance, such as the plastic surgeons office, the dermatologists office or at the orthodontist.dr. manly adds that shes seeing more and more men struggling with bdd.just [recently] i was working with a client who is so disgusted by his small, horrible paws that he cannot bear to hold his wifes hand, dr. manly says. you find a lot with men, especially as they age developing bdd around their breasts. gynecomastia is enlarged breasts but when they do not qualify for that, when it is just skin sagging, they will obsess over it and not wear certain clothes, etc. some men simply have rounder bodies that way and everyone has breasts, yet increasingly im seeing men [inflating this perceived flaw] and really focusing on it.dr. craigen adds that one form of bdd, muscle dysmorphia (the preoccupation with the idea that ones body is too small or not muscular enough), occurs much more often in men.emotional breakdowns and a crippling fear of being seenisobel ohare, a poet, essayist and the author of all this can be yours, first experienced bdd around the time she hit puberty, long after being diagnosed with ocd.my ocd manifested when i was very young, with my earliest memory of it from around 5 or 6 years old, while my bdd got severe at 13 or 14, says ohare. i would get up three hours earlier than i needed to and try on everything i owned  over and over again at times. i was obsessed with symmetry. i would part my hair perfectly down the middle and braid it on each side and if it was not symmetrical i would have an emotional meltdown. my mom was so wonderful and understanding, but i think this blindsided her because she didnt understand what was happening. i would be sobbing in the morning because i felt i looked disgusting  like a huge, monstrous giraffe  and i missed a lot of school [as a result].bdd is closely tied to ocdohares experience with bdd in comorbidity with ocd is quite common  even more so than the comorbidity of bdd with eating disorders.bdd is included in the dsm-5 under the section, obsessive - compulsive and related disorders which also includes hoarding disorder, trichotillomania (hair pulling) and excoriation (skin picking) rather than the feeding and eating disorders section where diagnoses like anorexia and bulimia are located, notes bethany kregiel, a clinician at walden behavioral care residential program.dr. craigen adds that while eating disorders can occur in relation to bdd, and that some people meet the criteria for both, the more common disorders are ocd and related disorders, and you are at higher risk for developing bdd if you have a first degree relative with ocd.bdd is treatableif you think you have bdd or any other disorder, the first thing you should do is consult a licensed mental health professional.do not self-diagnose by researching online, advises dr. manly. a diagnosis is only helpful in allowing someone to understand what is going on and then seek treatment. most medical practitioners and family doctors are not as well-versed in this area, simply because its not their specialty, so seek a psychologist or psychiatrist.your psychologist will typically want to assess you for possible ocd and eating disorders. if you are diagnosed with bdd, know that it is highly treatable.a common way to treat are bdd is with cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt), of which i am a big fan, says dr. manly. you may also be prescribed medication such as ssris, but i dont recommend using medication without [therapy] because it doesnt address the underlying issue. i am also a big fan of support groups and traditional psychotherapy.mindfulness reality checks can also helpas a supplement to your treatment, you may want to consider practicing mindfulness techniques.when i was 20 i started meditating and doing buddhist techniques of mindfulness, says ohare, who followed a four-step process. its about recognizing the thought, identifying it, recognizing where it comes from and changing your reaction to it. its a kind of mindfulness reality check of okay this is a feeling that is making me uncomfortable and recognizing that its coming from my brain, not reality and changing my response to it.ohare also turned to literature for guidance, and strongly recommends the books \"brain lock: free yourself from obsessive-compulsive behavior\" by jeffrey m. schwartz and \"passing for normal: a memoir of compulsion\" by amy s. wilensky.some days i really dont appreciate what i look like, says ohare. but most days i do. i feel like a perfectly composed human being.more mental health helphow to talk about mental health issues at work how to take a mental health daya daily ritual that will help you de-stress (in just 5 minutes)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

ever been on a run through the woods and notice litter mottling the otherwise natural scenery? maybe its plastic six-pack ring, an empty coke bottle or a few scattered cigarette butts. whatever it is, its a bummer on a few levels. not only is it aesthetically unpleasing, its a reminder of how careless and inconsiderate people can be. then theres the bigger picture problem: the deadly effects of trash on the ecosystem, as well as on innocent wildlife. the solution to the waste epidemic requires multipronged efforts, but we can all help  even on our routine jogs by plogging.plogging is simply picking up trash while jogging, and started in scandinavia (the word is a portmanteau of plocka upp, which means pick up in swedish and jogging). the fitness trend has been rising in popularity in the states, and earlier this year, the health app lifesum launched a feature enabling users to log and track their plogging, an effort supported by the keep america beautiful, a nonprofit focused on litter prevention.plogging is a way to connect with nature, while helping to restore itthe fad has attracted the interest of nature lovers who are duly concerned about the earths wellbeing, including ashlee piper, author of give a sh*t: do good. live better. save the planet.i heard about it a little over a year ago. fellow eco-minded influencers that i follow, especially in scandinavia, seemed to be making a sport out of their usual walks/hikes/runs and picking up trash along the way, piper says, adding that shes never experienced such an effective fusion of exercise and environmental action.people often hike and surf as a means of both getting in shape and reconnecting with nature, which are admirable forms of appreciating the planet  but ive not seen anything quite as official feeling as plogging.plogging on the beachcolin cooley, co-founder of wicked+, a creative and communications agency formed the plogging group wicked+ run club as a way to bring together a group of local runners on a weekly basis and do some good.they tend to hit the beach, where the litter problem can be especially hard to ignore.ive had a core group of running friends from different parts of l.a for the past eight-plus years and this was a way to meet some runners from right here in the south bay, cooley tells nbc news better. the plogging idea stemmed from my solo beach runs. my office is right off the beach and ill often end the workday with a beach run right before sunset. i see so much trash along the way and spend half my time running and the other half picking up trash and sprinting to the nearest trash can. i thought, why not make more of a regular event out of this and get our wicked+ run club crew to come out here with me once a week and clean up our local beach community while we get in a good sand run?it may feel small, but ploggers are tackling a big problempicking up some stray pieces of trash here and there may seem like its not enough to make an impact, but these small efforts can add up to tackle a massive problem.much of the litter we see is stuff we dont even think of as litter when we first get our hands on it. balloons, for instance, while beautiful and celebratory, come back down to earth as litter that doesnt biodegrade. other litter is simply improperly recycled recyclables that never made their way to the facility. in urban settings, the most common litter seems to be food and beverage packaging, especially plastic bags, coffee cups, straws and plastic beverage bottles, cigarette butts (which are really just non-biodegrabale trash), piper says.our consumption habits got us into this literal mess, she adds. small changes to those habits can help improve the situation.being in nature can help our health. this adds an extra punch.dr. darria long gillespie, aka dr. darria, an er doctor, the author of mom hacks and a runner, recommends plogging if only because of the proven benefits of being in nature.research has confirmed what we learned as kids  that going outside in nature just makes you feel good, dr. gillespie says. in japan, they call this forest bathing. time in nature improves heart rate, blood pressure, cortisol and even our immune functioning. other studies have shown that even being able to see nature from your hospital room can be associated with faster healing times. so, any time you can do exercise outside, not only does it overall make you feel better, it can even make the exercise feel easier.the scientific case for plogging ties to our origins as hunter-gatherersone particularly fascinating argument for plogging is that such an activity is in our nature, as civilized humans who evolved from hunter-gatherers.from a medical standpoint, plogging (or how about plalking, which would be walking and picking up litter) naturally emulates human body mechanics, says dr. barbara bergin, an orthopedic surgeon. our prehistoric ancestors walked long distances, and from time to time, would bend over to pick up fruit and nuts and bugs from the ground to eat.bending over stretches the back, buttocks, hamstrings and calves. plogging is multitasking in its best form.dr. bergin also notes the stretching benefits that the plogging may provide.bending over stretches the back, buttocks, hamstrings and calves. plogging is multitasking in its best form. its a great idea, and im going to start suggesting it to my patients, she says.you dont have to be a runner to do this. but you do need some cheap supplies.plalking, aka, walking and picking up litter as dr. bergin suggests, is an excellent option if jogging isnt for you. i have an old knee injury that makes jogging tough for me, so personally, ill be doing this gentler form.in either case, definitely invest in a few cheap supplies to take on your journey.if anyone wishes to go plogging [or plalking], take a strong plastic bag (such as a kitchen garbage bag, not a permeable plastic bag such as a grocery store bag which can drip on you) and disposable gloves, advises dr. gillespie. you dont know what youll be touching, and you dont want to transfer those germs onto your own non-disposable gloves or clothing.next: why forest bathing and just being in nature helps you de-stresswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as a woman of a certain age (35) who is hoping to have children, im flooded with information, suggestions and unsolicited advice about what motherhood (in the biological sense) might look like for me. you really need to start soon! is the phrase i hear ad nauseum from presumably well-meaning family and friends.my fianc, patrick is pushing 40 and just as eager to raise kids as me, but the subject doesnt much come up for him. he may be asked if he wants to be a dad, but never does his yes lead to a bombardment of follow-up questions and a recitation of scientific tidbits. im not arguing that he should be put through this awkward line of interrogation (frankly, i think we should both be left alone unless were asking for input), but surely, it says a lot about our society that nobody ever reminds him that to an extent, the biological clock is ticking for him, too. perhaps they just dont know that the risks for aging men surrounding fertility and the health off their offspring; after all, until i started to do the research, i had only a vague idea of them.things can start to change after 40as a woman, i can say that ive heard the phrase your eggs become geriatric when youre 35 maybe 50 times since i turned 30. turns out, men have their own ages to be mindful of.its on a hockey stick shaped curve [of risks], just as it is with women, but with men the stick is a lot longer. the risks can start at 40 or maybe even 50 or 60 and then [risks] rapidly rise after 60, says dr. paul turek, a mens health and fertility urologist.dr. brian a. levine, the founding partner and practice director of ccrm new york, board-certified in both reproductive endocrinology and infertility and obstetrics and gynecology targets 50 as the age where concerns about paternal aging may present themselves for men.in terms of the age-old question, how old is too old? we dont know the answer to that.despite men making sperm from puberty to death at the same rate, some of the sperm parameters start to change as men turn 50, he says. in terms of the age-old question, how old is too old? we dont know the answer to that. there are multiple factors, and it takes a lot to make a healthy child and the outcome is dependent on age of the mother, the father and the uterine environment. sperm is made throughout a mans life, but the system can get rustysperm is made new every three months, but when the system is aging there can be errors, explains dr. turek. a thousand sperm per heartbeat [is produced], but in an older man it can be delivered with breaks. its like packing a vase and the factory is overheated and it doesnt get packaged well. thats what happens to dna, and it can cause miscarriages and infertility.the problem here is that even with broken dna, so to speak, a semen analysis (that you may get to test your fertility) can look very normal, says dr. turek. with older women we know that most of the [problems] that can affect the offspring are chromosomal, leading to either miscarriages or terminations and, rarely, birth defects. but generally, this can all be detected, defined and diagnosed so we can make decisions about them. with men, you cant screen for these errors in the dna that cause mutations unless you know of them ahead of time, but they tend to be new.uncommon diseases and neurological issuesthese errors tend to easily get through quality control system [of the uterine environment] without causing miscarriage and can cause debilitating diseases in offspring like hemophilia, dwarfism and progeria, says dr. turek. some of these are not picked up natally but [present] as children get older or become adults. sometimes with older men youll see a successful childbirth and even a healthy child and then the issues hit.in the latter case, we tend to see epigenetic changes among certain gene sets that shape neurologic function. these are neither mutations nor chromosome issues, just marks on dna, clarifies dr. turek. women do throw off mutations, but men do it five to ten times higher. and they tend to be neurodevelopmental features.dr. turek pinpoints the following risks for men over 40 (with the risks sharpening as the decades pass):2-fold increased risk of miscarriage2-fold increased risk of pre-term birth1.9-fold increased risk of pre-term death25 percent increased risk of birth defects2-fold increased risk of chromosomal abnormalities10-fold increased risk of disease due to single gene mutations5-fold increased risk of childhood and adult diseases (such as autism schizophrenia, bipolar and epilepsy)older dads may live longer, as do their offspringif youre looking for the scientifically backed pros here, consider this: both older dads and their offspring tend to have longevity on their side.the good thing about being an older dad is that you tend to live longer, and you certainly have lots of young reasons to, says dr. turek. your offspring also tends to live longer. were evolving a lot more rapidly and this system is trying to help us live longer, which is a plus for both the older dad and his child. so, it makes teleological sense that if you are healthy enough to reproduce at an older age, youre good.the risks are there, but theyre relatively lowdr. turek has two kids, the second being born when he was in his late 40s. he had his concerns based on the known risks, but didnt let them obstruct his desire to be a biological dad.im relatively risk-averse, but i looked at the big picture, says dr. turek. when thinking of that hockey stick analogy, i wasnt in the steep part of the curve. i said to myself what is the chance a couple in america of any age will have a child with birth defects? the answer is a little over three percent. at most i was adding another three percent to that, but it just didnt hit my radar as being risky.make sure this is really what you wantdr. turek also became a dad at a slightly older age because he knew he wanted to, and this, according to licensed marriage and family therapist allen wagner may sound simple, but it takes some deep introspection, especially when youre older and set in your ways.there are a lot of pressures to become a father, and the worst reason to do it is to please someone else.we can always learn, but a lot of people develop these habits and rigid routines and now becoming a parent will change those, wagner says. people then must question whether they really want it, because it is really tough. there are a lot of pressures to become a father, and the worst reason to do it is to please someone else. i think a good reason to do it is because you want to share the things that excite you. do it for the reason of understanding that your building something in another human being. the reasons have to be for you, though, and not to please your partner or your parents. take ownership of this choice.get everything checked out medicallyand definitely get a checkup, particularly if youre 50 or over.get a proper evaluation. talk to your doctor, to a reproductive endocrinologist and to your wifes obgyn, says dr. levine. until you know what youre dealing with, you cant know; you may have perfect sperm at 50, but sperm abnormalities are silent. unlike with say, menopause, there are no hot flashes. additionally, whats right for one person may not be right for the other [in terms of possible interventions]. but i can say that being a father is a wonderful thing. its my first and favorite job.more parenting tipswant compassionate, bully-proof kids? do thisrealistic screen-time solutions for kids and their parents7 surprising benefits of being an older parenthow being a boss makes me a better momwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

it can be tricky to eat well when dining out, but seeking out healthy fare is worth the effort: according to recent research, each meal eaten out is associated with a slight increase in body mass index (or bmi). and who eats out just once a week? taken with another analysis showing that meals from fast-casual restaurants, including panera, can have significantly more calories than a fast food meal, a several-times-per-week dining out habit (be it breakfast, lunch or dinner), can lead to a lot of unwanted pounds.if unwanted pounds arent bad enough, restaurant meals are also typically high in sodium, yet low in fiber and whole grains, and many dont contain adequate produce. thats true even at panera, where the health halo of clean ingredients may trick you into thinking that everything on the menu gets the green light. it doesnt. (chicken tortellini alfredo and frontega chicken panini, ive got my eyes on you!) still, dining out is a convenience we all rely on so to help you avoid the unhealthiness and keep things light, i drilled down into the nutrition information of the panera menu for the best offerings and looked for ways to make them even better. here are your healthy panera bread picks.avocado, egg white &amp; spinachthis sandwich would make a filling and nutritious start to your day. im a fan of the flat bagel, which cuts about 20 g of carbs when compared to paneras whole grain bagel. plus, it contains sprouted grains, which are easier to digest than regular whole grain breads. sprouted grains also make the nutrients in grains more bioavailable. the healthy fat from the avocado together with the 21 grams of protein (mainly from the egg whites) and 7 grams of fiber (from the bagel and veggies) means this is a meal that will curb hunger and fuel busy days.steel cut oatmeal with almonds, quinoa and honeythe combo of steel cut oats and quinoa gets the thumbs up in my book. i cant even quibble with the drizzle of honey since its only providing about a teaspoon of added sugar. the only thing missing from this meal is produce, so id pair it with the summer fruit cup to balance out breakfast.steel cut oatmeal with blueberries, granola &amp; cinnamon crunch toppingthe steel cut oatmeal base makes this another winning breakfast. when compared to cold cereal, oatmeal has been shown to increase feelings of fullness and satisfaction, so if cereal is your morning jam, oatmeal is a good choice. however, too much added sugar is a personal pet peeve so id skip the cinnamon crunch topping here. youll still get one and a half teaspoons of added sweetener from the granola it comes with. to cut back even more, you can skip both toppings and opt for pecans, instead. doing so boosts your healthy fat intake, which is a nutritious move.mediterranean veggie sandwichthis sandwich is layered with lots of veggies, which is why it makes the cut. instead of the tomato-basil bread its served on, get it on the sourdough. doing so brings the sodium down 250 mg  still high at 980 mg, but an improvement. bring it down another 250 mg by choosing avocado instead of feta. the swap brings avocados vitamins and minerals to your meal and ups the fiber another 4 grams.roasted turkey &amp; avocado bltfor those craving a turkey sandwich, this one gets my vote, but id suggest eating it open-faced since most adults could do without the extra carbs, calories and sodium from refined breads. skipping the bacon would shave 200 mg of sodium (and 100 calories) from this meal  worthwhile nutritional savings if you ask me.modern greek salad with quinoathere are plenty of healthy ingredients, like olives, kale and romaine lettuce, in this main-sized salad. like most restaurant meals, the sodium is high, but 300 mg of salt is coming from the greek dressing. order the dressing on the side and drizzle lightly  just enough to add flavor. that will keep the sodium in a healthy range.caesar salad with grilled chickenthe caesar salad is a classic choice, although not without its landmines. as with other salads, my advice is to get the dressing on the side and use just enough to coat your greens. since the black pepper croutons dont add anything by way of nutrition, try skipping them and getting your crunch from the optional pecans instead. whole foods provide a nutritional boost over processed ones, and in this case, pecans stand out with more than 19 vitamins and minerals, including key nutrients like vitamin e, calcium, magnesium, and potassium. choosing pecans over the croutons also lightens the carb load.strawberry poppyseed salad with chickenthis meal meets all of my nutritional requirements: not too much added sugar, lots of produce, hearty levels of protein and fiber (to keep your belly full), and sodium levels (just 280 mg) that are hard to match in restaurant meals. have it with the sprouted whole grain roll if you like (yes, you heard me right!).black bean soupthis bean-based soup is a satisfying, plant-based choice that provides almost 70 percent of your daily fiber needs. note, however, that its really high in sodium  above 1,000 mg out of the 2,300 mg limit recommended for healthy adults. to lighten the sodium load, choose off the you pick two menu. youll get a smaller portion, which naturally lessens the sodium levels. pair it with the seasonal greens salad and remember to go easy on the side serving of dressing. and make sure you drink plenty of water and meet your fruit and veggie quota throughout the day. both will help your body flush out the extra sodium.what makes a good pick?in general, meals that meet the following guidelines are good choices when youre dining out. as youve seen above, however, its often hard to meet these requirements at a restaurant. in those instances, you may have noticed ive suggested some hacks to keep these meals more in line with my recommendations. though ive customized them specifically based on paneras options, youll get ideas for how to upgrade your meals elsewhere, too. tips like eating an open-faced sandwich, skipping the bacon, ordering dressing on the side, and adding flavor- and nutrition-boosters, like avocados and nuts, are strategies that can be applied no matter where youre dining. below are other eat-well commandments to be on the lookout for:meals have less than 700 mg of sodiumgrain-containing dishes are made with whole grainsfruits and/or veggies are included in the meal (and preferably in abundance)calorie levels are appropriate for most adults (under 550 calories, though those looking to lose weight may want to aim for less)dishes contain healthy fats from foods like avocados, olives and nutsadded sugars are kept to a reasonable limitmore tips and tricks from a nutritionisthow to build a better smoothiehealthy trader joes products nutritionists swear by11 delicious avocado recipes that dont involve avocado toastseriously filling salads youll want to eat all summerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

lately the headlines in personal finance have been pretty bleak  the average 2017 graduate has nearly $40,000 in student loans, millennial homeownership is down, and 39 percent of americans have no savings at all. even if youre not concerned about your financial future, you may well be worried about a childs, a siblings or someone elses.thankfully, there are a few bright spots out there. a new piece of research from schwab, the 2018 modern wealth index, highlighted a few of them  including the fact that millennials are actually the best financial planners of any generational group. thirty-one percent have a written financial plan, compared with just 20 percent of gen x and 22 percent of boomers. they also best others when it comes to goal-setting and saving. meanwhile, women emerged as being better long-term investors and than men, and theyre more likely to research major purchases.heres a look at some of the things millennials and women are doing right, and how you can put their winning strategies to use in your life.1. they ask questionsas a general rule, neither millennials nor women are afraid to ask questions, and thats giving them a leg up, says holly newman kroft, managing director of wealth management at neuberger berman. many millennials are living with a large burden of student loans, and they havent accumulated assets, so theyre a little hesitant about investing. they ask questions because they want to make sure theyre doing the right thing.asking questions about finances shouldnt be any different or more intimidating than asking questions in any other area of your life, kroft says. are you going to go to the doctor and just blindly take medical advice or drugs? youre probably going to research your condition, and be your own advocate when you go in there you should be the same way with your financial advisor. when you ask more questions, you increase your understanding, which is empowering  youll be less likely to panic in times of market turmoil, kroft says. people are always more scared of the things they dont understand.when you ask more questions, you increase your understanding, which is empowering  youll be less likely to panic in times of market turmoil.2. theyre joining groupssocial media and other online communities have led to a proliferation of virtual and real-world spaces where people can support each others financial struggles, decisions and successes. i would call them support groups, kroft says, but theyre really more like clubs. i see people discussing everything from going back to work while breastfeeding to finding the right financial planner. people are really just looking to find a community, get educated and share advice.instagram, twitter, and facebook have really changed the game when it comes to people connecting on important topics, explains chris britt, ceo and co-founder of banking app chime. if youve found something thats been helpful to you, theres a natural instinct to want to share it with others, he says.3. they arent overconfidentweve seen that women, for whatever reason, are not quite as confident  when it comes to financial planning, and because of that, they feel the need to be more conservative, says alyssa schaefer, cmo and head of product experience at online lender laurel road. while its never a good thing for people to feel insecure, a little humility when it comes to investing can be a good thing. according to a study by laurel road, women had a more conservative outlook when it came to their emergency funds  while men thought they needed $8,000, women thought they needed $10,000. women seem to know that there is no such thing as later when it comes to planning for their financial future, schaefer says.likewise, millennials, who were just starting their careers in 2008, are living their financial lives prepared for something bad to happen, kroft says. they wont assume they know the best thing to do without doing a lot of research on it, she explains.4. they dont compete to keep upvery rarely do my women clients come to me saying, my friend is getting better returns than i am  i want that, but i do see that from men, kroft says. women dont care what their friends are doing, and they arent trying to win a race. instead, they ask questions that pertain to them, and they spend more time making sure their investments are set up to meet their goals, rather than trying to beat the market. this is generally a wise strategy. you shouldnt be calling up your financial manager and asking to change up your entire portfolio because of a tip you got at a cocktail party. instead, you should see your investments as part of a long game to reach a long term goal of financial security. investing is a lot of things, but its not a competition, kroft says.5. they use debit and automation to stay in controlmore millennials prefer debit cards to credit cards for one simple reason  with debit, theyre in control, britt explains. according to a report by visa, 28 percent of millennials use debit cards for the majority of their purchases, and britt says that trend is likely to continue. people know that with credit cards, theyre more likely to go to the mall and buy that thing that they shouldnt have bought. many of them know what its like to have $3,000 worth of credit card debt hangover that theyre trying to work through.millennials are also leaning more towards automating their savings, which allows them to set it and forget it, britt says, adding that 92 percent of chime customers who open checking and savings accounts also sign up for the automatic savings feature, which moves a predetermined amount of money from checking into savings. people dont have time to miss their money, britt says. if you ask someone if they plan to save, they would say yes, absolutely  but they dont always put that into practice. when your saving is automated, it doesnt matter how disciplined you are, its just happening in the background without you having to think about it.with kathryn tugglehow to save more moneyhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayshow to save more money in 201813 easy ways to save money every dayhow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

its that time of year where you load up the car and road trip it to your favorite beach town or pack that carry-on and jet-set to a beautiful locale for a relaxing summer break.we know that putting up that out of office reply and taking a much needed vacation is good for our health. and also, our career. what isnt so healthy? the hours spent sitting, cramped in the passenger seat or the economy cabin trying to get to your destination.the major risk that comes with sitting for prolonged periods of time  whether its in a car or on a plane  is stiffness in joints and muscles and stagnation of fluids, says dr. karena wu, celebrity physical therapist and owner of activecare physical therapy in nyc and mumbai. stationary positions like sitting can lead to pooling of fluids in the lower extremities which can lead to swelling and even potential clotting of blood (deep vein thrombosis). stiffness can be due to the positioning of the joints into a shortened position and the reduced motion which means your fluid in your joint can be more viscous when you first move.you may not be able to avoid that long flight or hours in the car, but you can make some adjustments to the way youre sitting  and have some exercises on hand that will help reduce the impact on your body.a better stand in the airport security lineaccording to a survey conducted by aaa, 88 million americans plan to take family vacations this year, and of those, 35 percent plan to visit an international destination  which likely means a long flight is in their future. when it comes to flying, the hazards start when you arrive at the airport and get in the security line. wu recommends making a few adjustments while you wait to get through security. first and foremost, put down those heavy bags. when you do pick them up to move in line, turn it into an exercise session (while also protecting your back) with these moves:while holding bags, correct your posture, pull your abdominals in and stand equally on both feet, contracting the quads. i see people standing with their backpack or purse/tote on one shoulder, and their hip jutting out to the side as they bear all of that weight on one side of the body. its not great for the low back or the shoulder girdle because you are compressing one side of the body, says wu. people also slouch as they wait. so stand upright and use your own musculature to hold yourself erect.when the line moves, turn it into a squat to lift the weight, or a straight leg move to slide your items forward and exercise the hip musculature. your future is prolonged sitting so why not work out your muscles before you are stuck in your airplane seat? says wu.what to do on the planeonce you board your flight, the main concern becomes stiffness in the joints from being in the seated position for an extended period of time, says wu. sometimes you can get neck and low back pain from when people fall asleep with their head in a severely bent position (forward or sideways) or when they continuously cross their legs and lean on an armrest, she says. it torques the back and bends it where you compress one side and overstretch the other.the best thing to do is move. movement helps with circulation, says wu. it forces you to contract and relax your muscles so that any fluids do not get stagnant and gives you a little exercise at the same time.perform in-seat exercises. exercises like ankle circles/pumps, knee extension (straightening the knees), glute squeezes (squeezing your butt cheeks together) can help pump the muscles and give them a little workout at the same time, says wu. if you hold them for at least 10 seconds, youll really get the mini-workout component.get up and walk around the plane. sitting for prolonged periods is not great for the back. [walking around] allows you to move and get a stretch in the legs in the aisle, says wu. you can stretch the quads by bending the foot back to the butt and the calves; stand 1-foot in front of the other to feel the stretch in the back of the lower leg while you are waiting for the bathroom. she suggests once an hour as a good time frame to get up to stretch your legs (without irritating your fellow passengers).do upper body stretches in your seat. for triceps, bring the arm overhead, bend the elbow and then pull the elbow to the side; for the back of the shoulder, bring the arm across the body and pull it across further with the other arm; and for the abdominals, reach both arms straight overhead and stretch up and back says wu. any sort of movement is better than none, so these are easy to do without infringing on your plane mates space.what to do on a long road tripyou will run into similar problems when sitting in the car for a long trip  in addition to stiffness in joints and the potential to fall asleep in an awkward neck position, where you put your feet can also pose issues. in cars, there is a little more space so sometimes people sit on their feet or put their feet up which rounds the lower back, says wu. that can cause disc-related pain as the flexed position is not healthy for the spine.do not sit with your legs tucked under you or up on the seat. this squishes the soft tissue in the knee/hip area and shortens the muscle, says wu. when you unfold, you will feel very stiff from positioning that way for a long period of time. it can also compress the blood vessels and nerves so that you get pins/needles/tingling that is uncomfortable.get out and move around every hour. just like with sitting at a computer, it is recommended to stop and get out of the car every hour, says wu.you can do 10 backward bends by placing the hands on the hips and moving the head and shoulders backward behind the pelvis to counteract the poor sitting posture.use cruise control. this frees you up to do some toe curls/splay stretching, ankle pumps/circles, glute squeezes, and abdominal bracing all when sitting, however use caution as attention should be paid on driving and not the exercises, says wu.do isometric holds. nearly everyone sits with poor posture, says wu, so pay careful attention to keeping the body into a good upright position. isometric holds (static contraction with long hold times) allow for people to pump the muscles to make them work without needing much space, says wu. it brings energy into an area that is otherwise dormant from prolonged posturing. it also kills time during your travel!if you change just one thing  uncross your legsstop crossing your legs, wu urges travelers. it torques the spine, cuts off blood flow to the legs and facilitates muscle imbalances. it also leads to a rounded lower back as people have a tendency to slouch down when they cross their legs.\"more travel hacks and tipshow to pack a wrinkle-free suitsave $520 (or more) on your next flight with these 4 airfare hacksthe top safety mistakes we make when we fly, according to flight attendantshow beat back flight anxietythe most annoying people youll encounter on a flight  and how to handle themwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

why is it that you can perfectly recite the words to *nsyncs bye bye bye, but cant remember the title of the new tv show you started watching on netflix and wanted to tell your coworker about?we remember things because they either stand out, they relate to and can easily be integrated in our existing knowledge base, or its something we retrieve, recount or use repeatedly over time, explains sean kang, phd, assistant professor in the department of education at dartmouth college, whose research focuses on the cognitive psychology of learning and memory. the average layperson trying to learn nuclear physics for the first time, for example, will probably find it very difficult to retain that information.\" thats because he or she likely doesnt have existing knowledge in their brain to connect that new information to.and on a molecular level neuroscientists suspect that theres actually a physical process that needs to be completed to form a memory  and us not remembering something is a result of that not happening, explains blake richards, dphil, assistant professor in the department of biological sciences and fellow at the canadian institute for advanced research.in the same way that when you store a grocery list on a piece of paper, you are making a physical change to that paper by writing words down, or when you store a file on a computer, youre making a physical change somewhere in the magnetization of some part of your hard drive  a physical change happens in your brain when you store a memory or new information.so the ultimate question, at the cellular level, as to whether or not a memory gets stored [in the brain] is does that process actually complete properly, he explains. do all of the molecular signals get transmitted to ensure that that cell changes physically?so there are strategies for better organizing what may at first glance appear to be unrelated information to connect it to what we already know to help us better remember things, according to kang and others. but as far as changing the physical processes in the brain that make memories stick, theres likely not much you can do now to affect that, richards says.and thats probably a good thing, he adds.there may be a reason our brains forget thingsin a recent paper, richards and his colleague paul frankland, phd, senior scientist at the hospital for sick children and fellow at the canadian institute for advanced research, looked at previous studies that have investigated the physical changes in the brain associated with memory  and why sometimes that process completes and sometimes it does not. we found that theres a variety of mechanisms the brain uses  and actually invests energy in  that undo and override those connections, ultimately cause us to forget information, richards says.and that would mean that some forgetting is actually a very natural and normal process, rather than a failure of our memory, richards says. our brains may want us to remember the gist of what weve experienced because that will be most adaptive for making decisions in the real world.for example, lets say you remember a friends phone number, but that friend moves away and gets a new phone number. remembering the old number becomes useless and may make it more difficult to remember your friends new number.its not the case that as much forgetting as possible is good, obviously, he says. but at the same time it may not be the case that as much remembering as possible is always the best course either.what you can do to help make memories sticksure, some of what determines how well you remember things are the genes youre born with, kang says. but training can definitely plays a role in memory, as is the case for people who compete in memory competitions, he adds. no one suddenly wakes up one day being able to memorize 60,000 digits of pi.if you want to hone your own skills (whether thats for memorizing pi or better remembering names or facts), heres what might help:1. get a good nights sleepdecades of research support the fact that sleep is a critical time when memories consolidate and get stored. and that means missing out on sleep  or high enough quality sleep  can compromise some of those processes. the national sleep foundation recommends getting between seven and nine hours of sleep each night for optimal health and brain function.2. exercise regularlywhat is exercise not good for? its important for your heart, your mood, your sleep and your mind, particularly the part of your mind involved in memory. in one study in middle-age women with early signs of memory loss, starting a program of regular aerobic exercise actually increased the size of the hippocampus (a part of the brain known to be involved in the memory storing process) and improved verbal memory and learning scores when the women were tested.and a new 2018 guideline from the american academy of neurology recommends regular exercise as one of the things people with mild memory problems should do to help stop those problems from getting worse or turn into serious neurological disorders like alzheimers disease and other types of dementia.3. repeat or re-learn the information laterpsychologists and others call this one the spacing effect. the idea is that the more you re-learn or remind yourself of information again and again spaced out over time the better youll retain that information.perhaps you first learn about an olympic figure skaters difficult upbringing watching a news clip about his story; then a day or so later you read an article about that same skater; and then a few days later a coworker starts telling you about the same figures skater story. repetition helps make that story stick in your head  and so does the fact that you re-learned that information on different days in multiple different settings, kang explains. (multiple studies show that there is indeed merit in this approach.)the richer the contextual details associated with a particular memory, the greater the number of possible cues that could be helpful in evoking the memory later, kang says.4. test yourselfpeople often think testing is useful because it tells you what you know and what you dont. but the more important power of testing is giving you practice retrieving information youve learned and establishing that connection in the brain, explains rosalind potts, phd, teaching fellow at the university college london, who researches how cognitive psychology applies to education.for example, in one study that tested a group of students on new information they had learned one week earlier, students who were also tested on the new information immediately after learning it outperformed students who were simply instructed to study the information on the test they all took one week later.5. put the information in your memory palacesome say this approach dates back to ancient latin scholars, but its also been proven in much more recent literature to work. the idea is if you want to remember something, such as a shopping list or a code, you visualize those items or numbers in different rooms of your house (or some other physical place you are very familiar with).the memory palace approach (also called the method of loci) has been studied extensively in psychology. research shows it can be more valuable in terms of remembering than having more intellectual capabilities in the first place, and that it can be more effective for remembering than straightforward repetition and memorization.6. use a mnemonic deviceits easier to remember things that relate to knowledge we already have because we connect it to what we already have stored in our memory, potts says. thats why mnemonic devices work  they create a bridge between two pieces of information.so when we want to call that memory to mind, there are lots of different possible routes to it, she says.if you want to remember the meaning of the spanish word zumo (juice in english), you might conjure up an image in your head of a sumo wrestler drinking juice. when you hear the word zumo, you might then think of that sumo wrestler drinking his juice and remember the meaning of the word.7. pay attentionsure, its obvious. but concentration is important if youre trying to learn something, kang says. if you dont pay much attention to the information, the likelihood you encode that in your long-term memory is low.for example, he says, how many americans could accurately draw the details of the dollar bill, even though they likely look at it all the time?8. make it relevant to your lifebased on the neuroscience explanation of how memory works, if you really want to remember something, your best bet is trying to connect it to some other part of your life or a topic you already know, richards adds. figure out some other facet of life why its relevant  and use it.more in the your brain on serieswhat happens to your brain when you go on a dietthis is your brain on prayer and meditationhow to train your brain to be more optimisticwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

instead of creating an unhappy ending to your relationship, try turning up the confidence. research shows that a positive mindset with less fear can lead to a better relationship. a study published in the journal motivation and emotion concluded that an individuals perception whether a relationship would end led to feelings of being less committed and lowering the intensity of feelings for a partner. \"this shows that, when faced with a too high risk of ending the relationship, participants clearly reduced the intensity of their positive feelings towards the romantic partner,\" explained simona sciara, one of the researchers at vita-salute san raffaele university in italy who worked on the study.your past history isnt your romantic present or futurewhen entering new relationships, we may not have properly healed past hurt, which may lead to the conclusion to assume the worst. we look for reasons why we will end up hurt again, says racine henry, ph.d., a new york city-based licensed marriage and family therapist. the combination of knowing how devastating heartbreak can be and the natural disagreements which occur in even the healthiest of relationships can have us on edge, especially when we are extremely invested. in order to not create a self-fulfilling prophecy, she recommends keeping expectations in check and remain aware of the negative thought patterns you may have. additionally, be honest and open with your partner about any seemingly innocent behaviors they do which can trigger your anxieties and insecurities, dr. henry says.avoid clinginess??fixating on your relationship can hurt it. first of all, it can completely alter the way you interact with your significant other  usually for the worst, says michele moore, m.a., a licensed professional counselor, certified coach, and relationship expert based in albuquerque, new mexico. in most cases, it creates a situation where you become a stage 5 clinger and begin to act in possessive and even obsessive way, eventually driving your partner away thus exacerbating the pattern, she says. this unremitting stress and worry can begin to have devastating effects on your outlook and projections for the relationship. it stands to reason that, if you are afraid of being hurt or trying to look around every corner, you will not feel optimistic about where things are going and, again, drive your partner away when he/she feels as if there is no way to placate you, adds moore.stop telling yourself the sabotage storydana koonce, ma, a licensed marriage and family therapist who provides couples counseling in new york city, says the lens through which we view something plays a major role in how we feel and act in any given situation. what we are describing is a cognitive distortion called fortune-telling - predicting a negative outcome without actually considering the evidence in front of you, she says. if the story  that you are telling yourself about a relationship is that its going to fail, then you are naturally going to fall into a number of cognitive traps: discounting the positive only seeing negative aspects of a relationship and/or hyper-focusing on the negative while diminishing positive aspects; filtering -- convincing yourself that if something happens once, it is going to happen over and over and over; and selective abstraction --drawing conclusions based on only one or two pieces of evidence. bear in mind, our thoughts, feelings, and behaviors are all connected. if one approaches a relationship through the lens of the distortions that i just described, it is going to lead to negative feelings, low self-confidence, and relationship distress, koonce continues if one approaches a relationship through a more positive lens, it will lead to positive feelings, increased self-confidence, and a brighter outlook.try to manage your worryingpeople who are anticipating the worst in a relationship can be jealous, possessive and lack trust. if someone is worrying about the future all of the time it can make both people in the relationship uncomfortable, says michael j. salas, ma, lpc-s, lcdc, aasect certified-cst, csat, cdwf, a relationship and sex therapist in dallas. this discomfort can make it difficult to continue to grow together in the relationship. a study from case western reserve university reveals that worrying can be so intrusive and obsessive that it interferes in a persons life and endangers the health of relationships.dont take the road of doom and gloombe present, be mindful and appreciate your partner for who she or he is. you exist in the present. you hear their words. you see their face. you do things for them because you want to, not because you think you have to due to the relationship being doomed, says chris armstrong, a certified relationship coach and emotional intelligence practitioner in washington, d.c. and, have fun together. research from uc berkeley suggests that couples who play together feel closer, experience more positive emotions, and as a result are happier together. although there are bumps in every relationship road, that is a reality that everyone must accept, but armstrong says to keep your challenges in perspective. seeing those bumps as opportunities to address and push the relationship to a healthier place will take it to that healthier place, armstrong adds. relationships get stronger when things get in the way and both partners overcome them.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimehow the simple act of holding hands brought this couple closer than everwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

we love our dads  whether its the guy who kept your secret when he spotted you rolling in past curfew as a teenager or the one sharing diaper duty or helping you pack school lunches now. but a recent survey of more than 1,200 u.s. consumers conducted by mens gifting company man crates found that we may not be great at showing it in gift form. they found that 84 percent of people care more about mothers day than fathers day, and that 40 percent of people are more likely to shop for mom. and of those who are purchasing presents for dad, the majority of people admitted to buying boring gifts like ties and belts.but the outlook isnt entirely bleak for all the dads out there: a survey conducted by the national retail foundation found that 77 percent of americans will celebrate fathers day and spend an average of $133 per person  with americans spending a near-record 15.3 billion collectively.so why not use that cash to give the father in your life something hell actually like? spare dad from having to hang the hundredth tie in his closet and get him something that will elevate his lifestyle  whether he loves cooking for the family, cheering on his favorite sports team or hitting the gym (and then enjoying a cold one).nbc news has affiliate relationships, so we may get a small share of the revenue from your purchases. items are sold by the retailer, not by nbc news. all prices are subject to change and items could sell out based on the merchants inventory.for the outdoorsmanbudget friendly: sawyer water filter and purifierprice: starting at $55if his hobbies include hiking, camping, hunting or fishing, this gift will win you favorite child status this year. no more making room for water bottles in his backpack  or carrying the extra load  to stay hydrated while hiking to his destination. this bottle, with a built in filtration system, filters water of chemicals, pesticides, bacteria and protozoa in just 10 seconds, reducing contaminate levels far below epa standards for safe drinking water. so any fresh water source is now fair game for dad to quench his thirst.buy it here.splurge: yeti panga backpackprice: $299.99science tells us that being outside in nature is not only great for our physical health, but for our mental health as well. so why not make it even easier for the dad on your list to pack up his gear and hit the trail? this carry-all will give the outdoor enthusiast peace of mind that hell have dry, clean clothes to change into regardless where his adventures take him. one reviewer described this backpack from yeti  a brand known for its durability  as \"virtually indestructible.\" whether hes wading in water or gets caught in an unexpected downpour in the woods, he wont have to worry that all of his gear stays dry with the 100 percent waterproof shell and zipper with an airtight seal.buy it here.for the family chefbudget friendly: meater wireless thermometerprice: $69if hosting a barbecue means your husband or father spends the entire afternoon behind the grill, this handy tech tool will be his new best friend. the wireless meat thermometer takes all the guesswork out of cooking the perfect slab of meat  whether hes roasting chicken, cooking steaks or grilling salmon. all he has to do is insert the thermometer into the raw meat and select the type of item hes cooking, and the app will estimate the cook time. the convenient countdown clock shows how much time is remaining so dad can crack open a cold one and enjoy the bbq  instead of having to man the grill all afternoon.buy it here.splurge: weber original kettle premium charcoal grill 22?price: $149.99some of our favorite summer memories were spent grilling out in the backyard with our family. but dad is still using the same grill since your childhood, chances are, its seen better days. you know hell never go out and invest in a new one himself (\"the rust adds more flavor!\"), so use the holiday as an excuse to set him up with this top-rated model. reviewers give it top marks for being user-friendly and versatility (great for basic grilling and more complex slow-smoked barbecue); plus its surprisingly affordable.buy it here.for the tech geekbudget friendly: gamevice mobile controller for iphoneprice: $79.99for the dad who is really just a big kid at heart, allowing him to indulge his love of video games on the go can actually be good for his health. studies have suggested that hitting the sticks may improve memory, enhance cognitive function, and can help reduce pain and anxiety about medical procedures. with gamevice your dad can have over 950 compatible games right at his fingertips  whether hes commuting to work or waiting in a long line at the post office. the device connects directly to your smartphones charging port without needing to pair or charge it.buy it here.splurge: samsung smartthings home monitoring kitthink of it as giving your home a brain  so your dad can take a load off his. he can connect appliances, lights, speakers, locks, cameras, thermostats and more, and control, automate and monitor them all from his phone using the app. the system will give him peace of mind while the family is away on vacation and also save him from those daily stressors like remembering if he locked the front door or left the air conditioning on for the dog.buy it here.for the sports fanaticbudget friendly: uncommon goods bbq kit coolerprice: $99.95the father who lights up your life will be the life of the tailgate with this duffel. filled with all the essentials for grilling out before the game, there will be no more scrambling to make sure he has all of his gear before heading off to the stadium (or little league field). the heat-sealed main compartment serves as a cooler and fits 46 12-ounce cans, while the side pocket stores grilling tools, a cutting board, a corkscrew, an oven mitt and salt and pepper shakers.buy it here.splurge: lids imperial coffee tableprice: $279.00for the dad who likes to take the party in-house, allow him to really channel his team spirit by proudly displaying his favorite teams logo front and center (preferably surrounded by game-day snacks). this coffee table features a reversible logo panel that can be flipped to display a plain black panel  so mom can flip it back to an incognito \"normal\" table after game day.buy it here.for the metrosexualbudget friendly: sprezzaboxprice: $28/monthhave a little something dropped on the door step of the most fashionable dad (or those who could use a little help in that department) each month. each box contains 4-5 stylish lifestyle accessories  think fashionable socks, watches, tie clips, leather cord holders, coasters  and one grooming product, thats guaranteed to have over $100 in value. dont be surprised if dad shows up looking especially dapper to your next family brunch.buy it here.splurge: alton lane custom suitsprice: suits start at $595for the dad who is climbing his way to the corner office and needs to look the part, gift him a custom made suit that he can design to perfectly fit his frame and his style. especially great for those that dread shopping, alton lane offers a unique experience at their 13+ showrooms around the nation, which are equipped with fully stocked bars, poker tables, tvs and more so that he can get the full man-cave experience, and enjoy time relaxing with friends and family while designing his perfect suit.buy it here.the fit dadbudget friendly: 20 duffel by focusgearprice: $24.99when it comes to buying a new gym bag, there are endless options. what makes this one stand out? compartments galore. were talking a compartment for literally everything. sneakers, dirty or wet clothes, shower sandals, a water bottle, phone and headphones  plus an over-sized main opening so dad will never find himself rummaging through his bag looking for something again. with everything he needs to get his workout in easily accessible, the only thing this duffel doesnt leave room for is a dad bod.buy it here.splurge: nordictrack x22i incline trainer treadmillprice: $2999call all your siblings, its time for the most epic group gift. the price may seem steep, but when you stop and think of everything youre getting for the value, its a steal. the incline trainer offers over 12,000 workouts (from hiit to cardio to strength training) with interactive coaching on a 22\" interactive touchscreen, plus workout tracking that will help him dig deep into his stats and work towards his next fitness goal. but most importantly, it makes fitness fun. dad can really feel and experience terrains from around the world: a morning run through cinque terre, italy, a strength training circuit in antarctica and an after-dinner walk in botswana. plus, unlike competitors models theres no membership fee, so all new features and access to newly released workouts is bundled into the price.buy it here.beer loverbudget friendly: battle of the beers glass set from uncommon goodsprice: $45you cant go wrong with some clever glassware to hold his favorite suds. for the dad that loves a good board game night or round of darts at the bar, these handcrafted glasses featuring a battleship grid provide a fun activity to enjoy with his beer. maybe youll be lucky enough to snag the coveted spot as his drinking partner. if your old man would rather enjoy his beer in peace, these beer diagram, \"pick\" your poison guitar glasses or html beer glasses may be more his style.buy it here.splurge: man crates home brew kitprice: $169.99if your old man loves trying new local beers and heading to craft breweries to see how its made, why not give him a new weekend hobby and let him take a stab at it himself? this kit takes the love of beer one step further for the true aficionado, letting him brew his own batch in house. its one of the few kits on the market that provides absolutely everything you need in one box  right down to the tubing and bottle caps. so theres no need to make a run out to the store before he gets started. the sooner he starts brewing, the sooner he can enjoy the fruits of his labor right?buy it here.the frequent flyerbudget friendly: stm trilogy laptop backpackprice: $79.95the perfect carry-on for the man on the go. the backpack has three storage compartments  two main ones, and a full-size front pocket  plus tons of additional pockets for a passport, keys, headphones and all the other things he needs easy access to during work trips. but the best feature is the protective suspended tech cell inside made to hold a laptop and elevate it from the bottom of the bag, so it never hits the ground.buy it here. splurge: away travel the bigger carry-onprice: $245if the dad on your list prides himself on \"never checking a bag,\" this rolling bag will help him pack and organize everything he needs for a short trip. it has two main compartments, one designed for clothes, the other for shoes, toiletries, and other hard objects, plus a nylon laundry bag to separate the clean clothes from the dirty. the outside features an impenetrable shell that bends under pressure (you know, for when the passenger next to him forces his over-sized bag into the overhead bin), plus a battery that can charge any phone up to five times, so he will never be frantically looking for an outlet in the airport.buy it here.mr. fix-itbudget friendly: wallet ninja 18-in-1 pocket toolprice: $12.65this 18-in-one tool allows the handyman on your list to carry his toolbox in his wallet. yes, 18 gadgets are combined into a compact steel tool the size of a credit card. the tools range from your standard toolbox additions like four types of screwdrivers, a ruler and a nail puller to more unique, useful everyday tools like a fruit peeler, an eyeglass screwdriver and a cellphone stand.buy it here.splurge: leatherman wave plus muiltitoolprice: $99.95the perfect tool to have on the ready for every and any \"mr. fix it\" situation that arises, this device keeps 17 tools in one convenient place. who needs to lug a big toolbox around when you can have pliers, replaceable wire cutters, wire stripper, plain and serrated knives, saw, spring-action scissors, ruler, files, screwdrivers and even a bottle opener right at your fingertips? youre definitely going to want to keep this handyman on your speed dial.buy it here.more for fathers daythis is what keeps modern dads up at nightare daddys little girls treated better than little boys?realistic screen-time solutions for kids and their parentswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

travel is expensive  and unless youre careful, its easy to bust your budget. hidden or unexpected fees can quickly add hundreds of dollars to the tab.airlines, hotels and rental car companies have switched to this nickel-and-diming business model to compete in a world where people shop online for travel products and make decisions based on price. by tacking on fees  sometimes mandatory, sometimes optional for upgraded service  these companies can advertise lower prices.these companies need to be price competitive in order to get you in the door; then its easy to add ancillary fees on top of that, said professor chris anderson, director of the center for hospitality at cornell universitys sc johnson college of business. it works, it generates revenue and its been adopted by enough companies that the negative ramifications have been minimized.consumer advocate charlie leocha, president and co-founder of travelers united, says the proliferation of fees makes it much more difficult to comparison shop and enables airlines, hotels and rental car companies to squeeze more money out of the consumer.here are some common travel fees and ways to avoid  or at least budget  for them.mandatory hotel feessome hotels add a daily resort fee or destination fee to their room rate. hotels claim this mandatory fee, which averages about $27 right now, covers a bundle of amenities such as the gym, pool, wifi and newspaper  but you pay whether you want them or use them.the highest resort fees are in las vegas and hawaii. at some hotels in hawaii, the daily resort fee is now $45-$48, according to a recent survey by travel-hawaii.com.travel expert ed perkins, who writes for smartertravel.com, calls this a hidden fee and he believes its designed to trick people.because this fee is not included in the first price you see posted on the hotel chains website or on a travel site  such as tripadvisor, expedia or trivago  the comparison process is really distorted, perkins told nbc news better. its a practice that allows a hotel to tell you that a $100 a night room only costs $70, so its a scam.the american hotel &amp; lodging association (ahla) says only 7 percent of u.s. hotels charge a resort fee and those that do will disclose it well before the end of the booking process. we support breaking out all fees so consumers can make the most informed decision when planning their vacations. consumers tell us they prefer this transparency, too, ahla said in a statement.but unless youre careful to check for added fees, they can be easily missed. this reporter was surprised when checking in at a hotel in midtown manhattan recently that there was a $25 a night destination fee. i hadnt noticed that mandatory fee in the small print on my confirmation receipt and didnt even think of looking for it because i was using rewards points for a free night.the receptionist said many guests were complaining that they didnt know about the fee and he agreed to remove it. he also advised me that most of the other major hotels in the area were also tacking on this fee.lesson learned: check the fees before you book a hotel room. you may have to search for them, but they should be listed. if you feel you were misled, complain. you may be able to get the charge removed.basic economy air fare feesthe big three u.s. airlines are trying to compete with low-fare carriers, like allegiant air and frontier, by offering basic economy fares on their domestic flights. american, delta and united now have basic economy fares on some international flights.basic economy means something different at each airline:on delta, you get one free carry-on that can go into the overhead bin.with american and united, youre allowed one small personal item that fits under the seat in front of you, such as a shoulder bag, purse or laptop bag. find yourself at the gate with a bag thats too large and youll be charged a $25 service fee, plus the standard fee for checked luggage.a recent article in conde nast traveler breaks down the differences for basic economy at all the major u.s. airlines.charlie leocha with travelers united says many travelers dont understand the limitations that come with basic economy. he believes the lack of standardization is causing a great deal of confusion.as we all know, american consumers dont read all of the fine print. they dont read all the big print either. they just look at the prices. they see a low price, they buy it and then they get into trouble when they get to the airport, leocha said.the airline industry says its trying to offer fliers bargains, while making sure it spells out what each fare does or does not include.it would be tough to find an industry thats more transparent, as all pricing is available at the click of a button, vaughn jennings, vice president of communications at airlines for america, said in a statement to nbc news better. customers are benefiting from an unprecedented combination of affordability and choice as fares have declined for three consecutive years.rental car feesrental car companies are notorious for added fees. expect to pay $20-$30 a day, if someone 21-24 years old will be driving the car. you might also get hit with a surcharge for multiple drivers or if you plan to drop-off the car in another city. and dont lose the key: that could cost you as much as $300.tolls are something else you might not consider. if the car has a to go pass on the windshield, that toll will be paid by the rental car company and added to your bill. youll also get hit with a daily convenience fee  typically $3.95 to $4.59  for using that transponder.with the e-toll program at budget and avis, once you use the transponder, youll be charged $3.95 a day for every day of the rental (up to a maximum of $19.75 per rental month), even on days when e-toll is not used.watch out if you rent from dollar or thrifty. they have a $15 per toll surcharge ($9.99 per occurrence in florida), unless you buy their platepass all-inclusive service in locations where its available.to avoid tolls and the added fees, use a mapping app that shows you how to avoid them. if you know a turnpike or expressway takes coins at the automated toll booths, bring along a lot of change.credit card foreign transaction feesheaded outside the country? check to see if your credit card charges a foreign transaction fee. if so, you may want to get another card before you head off.the typical fee can be as high as 3 percent of the purchase price. that may not sound like a lot, but for a $3,500 hotel bill, thats around $100.some top-rated credit cards dont charge a foreign transaction fee, including the chase sapphire reserve, bank of america travel rewards credit card, discover it cash back, and all capital one cards.next: save $520 (or more) on your next flight with these airfare hackswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

you may want to spend an extra minute or two savoring your next cup of joe from starbucks. the global coffeehouse chain just raised the price of a regular drip coffee by 10 to 20 cents in most locations, making a tall brew around $1.95 to $2.15, depending on where you are. fortunately, the chain isnt generally spiking prices on any other type of beverages, so your frappuccinos and chai lattes should be safe for now.but wow! two bucks for a cup of plain black coffee? i can almost hear my late grandfather grunting in disbelief. and this morning i literally heard my fianc, patrick, whose morning ritual includes a starbucks run, throwing a fuss when he returned from our nearest branch in los angeles.\"this coffee is already too expensive,\" he complained. \"now its 20 cents more. this is ridiculous. im switching to dunkin donuts up the street!\"\"and im replacing the mr. coffee machine so we can go back to brewing our own, i cried. this has gone too far.\"then i consulted some coffee industry experts along with starbucks and realized that while, yes, maybe spending a combined $120 a month on fresh coffee in sleeved cups isnt the smartest financial decision for a couple looking to buy a house in the next few years, but starbucks has sound reason to up the price on its most basic offering.starbucks says its in line with industry practices and inflationstarbucks continually evaluates pricing on a product-by-product and market-by-market basis, a spokesperson for the brand told nbc news better in an email. evaluating prices periodically allows us to balance the need to run our business profitably while continuing to provide value to our loyal customers and to attract new customers.in the past year, starbucks increased prices 1 to 2 percent which is on par with the industry practices and is in line with food away from home inflation which is 2.2 percent to 2.4 percent, the spokesperson added.are customers paying for starbucks fallout training after the racism scandal? probably notstill  the timing of starbucks price increase had me skeptically raising a brow. on may 29, starbucks closed 8,000 locations for anti-bias training, an initiative that followed the wrongful arrest of two black men in a philadelphia starbucks last april. are the associated costs (and possible profit loss) with the incident, training and temporary closures in some way being pushed on to the consumer?starbucks asserts that the training is unrelated to the price increase.this price adjustment was not related to last weeks store closures and trainings, said the spokesperson.experts unaffiliated with starbucks suggest that this is likely true.i do not believe that the cost of the anti-bias training is related to the raise in prices, says amy cooper hakim, phd, who heads the cooper strategic group, which specializes in workplace training and coaching. organizations of this size incorporate costs for cultural awareness training in their budgets. the loss of sales due to the closing of stores for the training efforts likely plays into the larger figure expressed for the overall cost of the initiative. still, when leadership makes a point to offer diversity and cultural awareness training, this is seen as an investment in the employees within the organization. the return on investment is not only a more culturally accepting workplace, but also a more culturally accepting store for customers.additionally, as jonathan doh, phd, professor of management &amp; operations, international business department chair; associate dean of research and faculty director of the center for global leadership at villanova school of business points out, the price increase was probably planned well before the scandal that led to the training.starbucks has great employee benefits  and thats not cheapi highly doubt the price increase is directly related to the diversity initiatives, says doh. i think these things are on two different tracks. my strong suspicion is these price increases are designed to recoup expenditures on employee benefits.and those employee benefits are cushy when compared to most other quick-serve establishments. at all levels of the company, depending on hours worked, starbucks offers healthcare, full tuition coverage with arizona state university, career sabbaticals and more.andy hoffbauer, a barista who has worked in managerial positions at a few coffeehouses (excluding starbucks), most recently at steel city coffeehouse in philadelphia, says that these perks are pretty rare in his world.nowhere else provides these type of supports to people who arent administrative or managerial staff, hoffbauer says. paying for a degree that may not even be used [at starbucks]? thats amazing  and unheard of elsewhere in the coffee business.that basic brew is pricier to create than you thoughtthough hoffbauer hasnt worked at starbucks, his experience in the managerial side of the coffee business enables him to give a pretty good guess at how much a cup of coffee costs the company to make on average.coffee is about $8 a pound, depending (and starbucks may get it for cheaper), which gets you about 26 small cups of coffee. so for just the coffee, thats about 30 cents a cup.now that sounds like my grandpas kind of price expectations! but dont forget everything else that goes into making that cup: staff, real estate, utilities and machinery and then the other commodities like various types of milk, sweeteners, napkins and so on.the waste factor is also significant.every couple hours you need to re-brew, hoffbauer says. you could be dumping a couple gallons a day. you also have to factor in spills and people ordering something and being misheard by the barista or changing their minds.starbucks also spoke to the variety of costs in its email statement.there are many factors that contribute to pricing decisions, including various operating and occupancy expenses (i.e. rent, labor, local mandates and regulations, competition, distribution, marketing, and commodities  including coffee  but also other commodities associated with beverages, foods, materials and operations). coffee commodity costs are only part of our value equation, historically comprising a relatively small percent of our overall store operating and occupancy expenses, the spokesperson said.starbucks has created a special stickiness in customer experiencewhen you take all that into consideration, $2 for a cup of sounds less outrageous. then add in the customer experience, which is designed to be impeccably efficient while still seeming chill.my main expertise is in global trade and i go to starbucks all over the world, says doh. there is consistency and familiarity and even when the wait looks long it usually isnt, which is a great consumer experience. theres this whole constellation of experiences and i bet a lot of money goes into it. starbucks has created a kind of glue or stickiness between the starbucks experience and the customer. that glue is profound, and i think it would take a lot more than a relatively small price increase to dislodge it.i still think i need to spend less on coffee, but im no longer judging starbucks negatively for upping the price. turns out, a heck of a lot goes into that one cup of joe.money saving tipsthe one move you can make to improve your wealth and healthhow a do-not-buy list can save you hundreds of dollars13 easy ways to save moneyhow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

most of us think about putting on more padding during the winter months, when the holidays hit us with extra goodies from halloween through new years day. plus, those dark, dreary winter days can take a toll on workouts, and bulky sweaters and puffy coats provide good cover for cozying up to comfort food a little too often. but truth be told, summer takes a toll on our waistlines, too.it may seem strange considering we spend more time outside and farmers markets are bursting with seasonal produce, but summer comes with its own landmines to navigate. a typical weekend could take you from your kids soccer game (where you grab breakfast at the concession stand), to a bbq where hot dogs and hamburgers are the main course, to the ice cream shop where you treat your kids  and yourself  to a cone. suddenly a summer saturday filled with fun outdoor activities has introduced hundreds of calories into your diet that you otherwise wouldnt have eaten.here are seven reasons your clothes might feel a little more snug this season, and the healthy habits to help navigate the menu and stick to your pre-summer weight.vacation mindseti love summer vibes! things slow down a bit in general, and work weeks may be shortened  ending on a thursday, beginning on a tuesday, or both. though relaxing and taking time off are critical parts of an overall wellness routine, it probably comes as no surprise that being constantly on vacation or weekend mode can cause the pounds to creep up.its nice to feel easy-breezy, but applying that vacation mode mentality to your diet or activity levels isnt advisable. a small mental shift can help you enjoy the best of both worlds: focus on balance. this will allow you to enjoy the ease of summer without relaxing too much on your fitness and healthy eating routine. since the days are longer, take a stroll later in the evening or push dinner back an hour so you can go for a swim beforehand. take comfortable shoes on vacation so you can see as much as possible on foot.when it comes to healthy eating, consistency is your friend. stick to your routine as much as possible, and by all means, take advantage of all of those fresh fruits and vegetables available to you! watermelon, corn and beefsteak tomatoes wont be available when the weather starts to chill, so eat em while you can.sweetened teas, lemonades, smoothies and sports drinkswhen the heat and humidity are brutal, you need extra sips. but for most people who arent killing it during their workouts (myself included), water is the best way to rehydrate. generally, only sweaty and lengthy activities call for sports drinks. for activities that last an hour or less that dont work up a sweat, plain water is your best bet, according to new york yankees and new york nets nutritionist, cynthia sass, mph, rd, cssd. if youre exercising for over 90 minutes, youre sweating heavily, or if your activity is short, but its particularly hot and humid, a sports drink is probably a better choice, she says. note which category you fall into and replenish responsibly.beyond sports drinks, other sweet beverages are some of summers worst offenders. stop for a peach iced tea and you might be adding almost 300 calories to your daily total. and that freshly squeezed juice that costs as much as the minimum wage isnt much better. sure, the 200 calories come with a side of antioxidants, but your brain doesnt compute liquid calories the same way it does solid ones, so if youre making this a habit, theres a good chance itll show up on the scale.smoothies may be healthy, but if they have too many add-ins or contain sorbet or frozen yogurt (as they may at chains, like smoothie king) they arent going to do your waistline any favors, either.boozespeaking of liquid calories, you might have to re-think your adult drinks, too. if you like pina coladas, you might like to know that one could have 450 calories. even a tame-sounding vodka with cranberry juice can have close to 200 calories. sangria is somewhere in between, and a frozen margarita can have more calories than a scoop of ice cream. i think you can see where this is heading. your calories are better spent on foods that are filling, satisfying and nourishing. with this in mind, stick with beer, wine (including sparkling varieties), or something like vodka with seltzer and skip those summery cocktails.barbecue farea survey from weight watchers showed that the average brit eats about 3,200 calories at a barbecue. its easy to see how americans would consume similar amounts. between the mayo-based salads, hot dogs, hamburgers, ribs, chips and dip, lemonade and other sugary drinks, pies, brownies, and ice cream sandwiches, a barbecue is basically a healthy eating nightmare. if there are several barbecues on your summer schedule, consider creating a signature, better-for-you dish to bring. your hosts will appreciate the help, and it will take the food situation up several notches. apart from that, go for a portioned approach. have one small-ish main dish (and challenge yourself to skip the white bun), and seek out simple veggie sides (like a piece of corn or a tomato salad). with a barbecue, healthy-ish is the way to go!carnival fareblame the funnel cake. and the cotton candy. and the fried oreos. but sausage and peppers, gyros, pizza, and other carnival eats arent exactly off the hook. its hard to eat well at a carnival so if it isnt an all-day outing, you might want to grab a bite before or after and focus on the activities while youre there. after all, isnt that why youre at the carnival? if that wont do, consider a kebab with grilled meats and veggies, along with some grilled corn on the cob. or you could share a meal with your carnival companion.boardwalk bitesi know the call of the curly fries is real, but if you want to head into fall with your pre-summer body, its probably best to limit the fries, nachos, chicken fingers, and other boardwalk food. instead, pack a picnic. you might enjoy sandwiches made with whole-grain bread, a summery fruit salad or corn salad, or a crudit with dips, like guacamole and hummus. remember to fill your cooler with ice packs to keep your food safe.ice cream and frozen yogurti love ice cream as much as the next person, but if the ice cream jingle gets you every time, you probably need a new strategy. eating well means nourishing your body most of the time, while also allowing yourself to enjoy all the foods sometimes. rather than stopping at the ice cream truck as it makes its way around your neighborhood every day, find a local ice cream parlor that makes homemade licks. get a small scoop or cone, and sit back to enjoy it  not every day, but every so often. when treats are 110 percent worth it  the taste, the experience  theyre more enjoyable, and you might find you can get by with them a little less frequently.the truth is, this goes for all the food experiences mentioned here. the trouble comes when we regularly abandon our routine. when you go into vacation mode, make sure its for one meal rather than one season.more tips and tricks from a nutritionisthow to build a better smoothiehealthy trader joes products nutritionists swear bywhats the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?seriously filling salads youll want to eat all summerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

lets say youve been given the super power of peering into a random couples homes in order to observe their secret couple behavior from afar. youd probably see them get into spats over how to load the dishwasher properly, observe them canoodling on the couch binge-watching \"the office,\" and maybe even catch them throwing down in a good old board game competition.youd also probably see them communicating in a way thats all too familiar, but rarely acknowledged: with high pitched, cutesy wootsy, i wuv yew baby voices.genuinely curious about the ubiquity of baby talk in otherwise adult relationships, nbc news better consulted a relationship psychologist and therapist for the down low on this phenomenon.they weighed in on the important questions: is this type of communication a sign of deep or shallow love? why do so many of us do it? and most importantly, is it conducive to a healthy and thriving partnership?why baby talk is so commonbaby talk, for those unfamiliar, encompasses any sort of communication that resembles the way you speak to a baby, child or even pet. maybe it includes endearing nicknames, exaggerated playful emotions, a shift in tone or demeanor or a jump to a higher octave. sometimes it consists of affectionate verbal exchanges, sometimes its legit coo-ing, and sometimes it sounds like complete gibberish.according to dr. antonia hall, a psychologist who specializes in relationships, all of the above is exceptionally common in adult romantic partnerships.baby talk signals closeness, is a method of mirroring to evoke positive emotions, and fosters secure attachment with one another, says dr. hall. it indicates a desire to nurture your partner and the bond between you two.she went on to explain that this way of communicating replicates that very first bonding experience we have in this world  usually with our primary caregivers. when a parent speaks this way to their child, its a way to establish love, bonding, affection and a sense of security. the same is true when it comes to adult romantic partnerships. speaking like this is innate and universal to all humans, notes hall.dr. kathryn smerling, a nyc-based family therapist, agrees. some people might refer to it as couple speak, but the more common clinical term is known as regression, or infant directed speech, she explained. in psychoanalytic theory, individuals revert their behavior to an earlier stage of development, and they may mimic childish mannerisms as well as speech. it is actually very common and most couples resort to it when they want to either display vulnerability or as a way to get closer in a very intimate manner.its almost as if the couple has created their own private language together, dr. smerling adds, which makes it feel even more special. further, its a way to bring out that inner child  and we all have one  who craves unconditional love and tenderness.hall also points out that we even have a tendency to use sounds that are commonly made by babies, such as ba, boo and ma with our partners.it makes sense that couples use these same sounds in loving nicknames  babe, baby, boo, bae, she says. were intrinsically mimicking what we heard from our nurturing parent. even those who might never use baby talk can still find themselves calling their sweetheart babe from time to time.so while it may be perceived as childish or immature (and annoy everyone else in line at the coffee shop), baby talk is actually the mark of a healthy and strong partnership.3 times to press pause on baby talknow that we know baby talk is a promising sign, we ought to do a bit of due diligence. there are a handful of situations that call for a more straight-and-narrow communication approach. here are times when you should press pause on the cooing:when youre in public. baby talk is usually going to garner eye-rolling from outsiders, so couples may want to limit their bonding behavior in public, says hall. some couples may not care what others think, but its best to make sure you and your partner are on the same page (and one of you isnt embarrassed by the interaction in front of others), and that youre being respectful of the company around you.during a serious conversation. its best to avoid using baby talk during serious conversations or when youre fighting, notes hall. both scenarios require honest, open adult communication. an endearing nickname thrown in is perfectly okay, of course.if your partner dislikes it. even though baby talk is normal, healthy behavior, its always good to make sure both people feel good about it. if it annoys your partner, then itll backfire and wont foster bonding. notice their reaction if you call them a certain pet name or use a childlike tone, advises smerling. do they return it with a smile or cringe a little? are they using baby talk back and returning the favor, or do they continue to talk to you normally? look for nonverbal cues to see if your partners feeling it, and if that fails ask them straight up. the communication only remains healthy and positive if both parties are on board.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimehow the simple act of holding hands brought this couple closer than everwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if youre stuck under an avalanche of debt, you might think the easiest solution is to pay the minimum on your balances each month. but you can pay it off faster and save money in the process by putting as much money as possible towards your high-interest debt first.the popular debt repayment method, known as the debt avalanche, helped dear debt author melanie lockert pay off $68,000 in student loans and save money in the process.you typically save money because youre focusing on the highest interest, lockert tells nbc news better.the debt avalanche is an alternative to the wealth snowball method, where you focus on paying more than whats owed on your minimum monthly balance, says lockert.how it workslets say you have multiple loans with different balances and interest rates. for example, you might have $5,000 in credit card debt at 16.29 percent, a $11,000 car loan at 3.7 percent, and $60,000 in student loans at 4.2 percent.using the debt avalanche method, you will pay the minimum on each debt but will focus on paying off the credit card debt first with any extra money you have.for instance, if your minimum monthly payment on the credit card is $300, instead of just paying the minimum, contribute $320. the more you can afford to contribute, the better.after you pay that off, focus on the student loan debt next, followed by the car loan.lockert says the 7.9 percent interest rate carried on her student loan was her biggest motivation for embracing the debt avalanche.i did the math, and my interest was costing about $11 per day, and that just drove me completely mad and upset me because $11 a day, thats $300 a month, says lockert.save as much money as possiblethere is no easy solution for paying off debt, according to lockert, who has learned from experience. shortly after gradating from new york university in 2011, she moved to portland, oregon, where the cost of living was significantly less than new york city, but where she struggled to find work.lockert eventually landed a job at a non-profit that netted her $31,000 a year. she started doing side hustles, she recalls, often working seven days a week.i pretty much cut back every single way i could, says lockert. i didnt have health insurance, i didnt have a car, no pets. i walked and biked everywhere and took every gig i could take. and after cutting back pretty much all the expenses i could, i hit a plateau and realized i cant cut back anymore, and so i started side hustling as much as i could and earning more money.the millennial found side gigs on craigslist and taskrabbit, and made extra money pet sitting.every time i got paid from a side hustle i put that money towards my debt. that helped lower the interest, she says.lockert eventually launched her own freelance writing business, which doubled her income. at the time, her studio in portland, which she shared which her then boyfriend, cost her just $400 a month. the extra money coupled with a low cost of living allowed her to pay off her high interest debt in under five years.once i got rid of those 7.9 interest loans, i just felt so great, lockert recalls.when she was finished paying off her high-interest student loans, she could focus on paying off her next highest interest debts, she says.then, towards the end of it, i was just down to my undergrad loans of 2.3 percent, and just focused on that, she says. and obviously those payments went a lot further at that point because the interest was so low, and then i could make more principal headway on the payments.change your mindsetthe writer says the best way to pay off debt is to be consistent.theres no fun advice, lockert says. theres no easy hack. theres no magic secret. its really just about being consistent.lockert says the first step to tackling those high-interest loans is to change your mindset about debt.i know that sounds weird, but i had so many excuses on why i couldnt get out of debt, she says.she says she convinced herself that her situation was normal and that everyone has debt.when you start thinking that, then of course youre not going to really focus on paying off debt, she says.lockert eventually realized there is no such thing as good debt, she says, and began the hard work of paying it off as fast as she could.so, really, i had to just change my mindset, lockert says.set milestones and have funpaying off large amounts of debt can be stressful, warns lockert. thats why its important to set milestones for having fun and staying motivated.for example, for every $1,000 in high-interest debt you pay off, treat yourself to a nice dinner, advises lockert. for every $10,000 paid, take a fun day trip, she says.debt fatigue is real, lockert says, and so for that i definitely recommend budgeting for some self care and some fun and some milestones.how to tackle debt with the debt avalanche methodhow to do it: lets say you have three loans with different interest rates. focus on contributing as much money as possible to the highest interest rate loan first while paying the minimum monthly balances on your other debt. when the highest-interest loan is paid, focus on paying off your next highest interest debt.save as much money as possible: focus on reducing your cost of living, if possible. cut back on unnecessary expenses and look into side gigs that can earn you extra income. put your extra savings towards paying off your high-interest debt.change how you think: when youre buried in debt, its easyto make excuses, or to convince yourself that paying off your loans is impossible. the key is to have a plan and stick to it consistently.remember to have fun: paying off large sums of debt can be stressful and exhausting. to prevent burn out, set milestones that will allow you to have fun and stay motivated. for instance, for every $1,000 of debt paid off, treat yourself to something enjoyable.get more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 daysneed to save money fast? try a spending banwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

\"r.b.g.,\" the inspirational documentary about supreme court justice ruth bader ginsberg, is making the rounds at theaters and to say its inspirational is a vast understatement. the brooklyn born-and-bred lawmaker graduated from cornell in a time when few women went to college, was one of just nine women granted admission to harvard law in 1956 (yet was denied access to its reading rooms because of her gender) and became the first woman ever to join the harvard law review. eventually, she transferred to columbia law school and graduated first in her class in 1959, while raising a 4-year old daughter with her very supportive husband, marty.now 85-years young, ruth bader ginsberg (rbg) was the second woman appointed to the united states supreme court in 1993 and is still hard at work, advocating for womens and minority rights. and shes in no hurry to retire  especially now. she sees her dissents  opposing viewpoints with the majority opinion of the court  as an important exercise in democracy.when a justice is of the firm view that the majority got it wrong, she is free to say so in dissent. i take advantage of that prerogative, when i think it important, as do my colleagues, she explained in a new york times opinion piece she wrote in 2016 to dispense life advice.in fact, she very recently dissented (along with justice sonia sotomayor) a supreme court decision that favored a colorado baker who refused to make a gay couple a wedding cake in 2012, as she saw it as a clear case of antigay discrimination. \"what matters is that [the baker] would not provide a good or service to a same-sex couple that he would provide to a heterosexual couple,\" read ginsburgs dissent.as rbg has said, dissents speak to a future age, and, justices continue to think and can change. i am ever hopeful that if the court has a blind spot today, its eyes will be open tomorrow, says shana knizhnik, attorney and co-author of \"notorious r.b.g.: the life and times of ruth bader ginsburg.\" although rbg would prefer to be in the majority, the ability to speak out in disagreement in the form of a dissenting opinion is incredibly important for the losing side, future litigants and judges, and most of all, to sound the alarm to the public, she explains.if you want to be heard, dissent like rbglearning to dissent, or express an opinion that goes against the grain, can benefit us all when were called upon to stand up for ourselves. inspired by the book and the movie, we picked up a few tips and tricks on how to dissent as effectively as rbg.as you build your case, think long termrbg always took a long view toward change, using her talents to dismantle gender inequality, (literally) case-by-case. describing the process as knitting a sweater, ginsburg took it upon herself to educate male justices as she fought and won cases in favor of women. as supreme court justice, knizhnik says the case of ledbetter v. goodyear tire co. features one of rbgs most important dissents, because it actually led to a change in federal law.the majority agreed that ms. ledbetter had been the victim of pay discrimination, however they ruled that her claims were time-barred, because she filed them long after the discrimination had actually occurred, explains knizhnik. rbg pointed out the absurdity of such an outcome, since in ms. ledbetters case and indeed in most cases of pay discrimination, people who are receiving less pay as a result of discrimination are not aware until much later that that is the case. rbg put the ball in congresss court to fix this error, and then in 2009, the lilly ledbetter fair pay act was the first piece of legislation signed into law by president obama.find common ground and educate your opponentas movingly depicted in the film, rbgs unlikely friendship with conservative justice antonin scalia surprised many. though they held opposing views, they found common ground in their shared love of the opera, formed an easy rapport and bonded as true friends.i think the most valuable lesson is the strategy of not treating ideological foes as automatically irredeemable, said knizhnik when describing her biggest lesson from rbg. rbg has always done her best to paint her adversaries arguments in the best light, right before she argues forcefully for the opposite position. this does not mean that every argument is worthy of respect rather, it simply means that we must strive for intellectual honesty, even when it is difficult.when a thoughtless or unkind word is spoken, best tune out. reacting in anger or annoyance will not advance ones ability to persuade.choose words carefully, then speak your mind (without raising your voice)rbg credits her cornell european literature professor vladimir nabokov (yes, as in the author of lolita) for changing the way she read and wrote.choosing the right word, and the right word order, he illustrated, could make an enormous difference in conveying an image or an idea, she wrote in the new york times \"advice for living piece. she also mentions some listening advice dispensed by her mother-in-law on her wedding day: in every good marriage, it helps sometimes to be a little deaf. when a thoughtless or unkind word is spoken, best tune out. reacting in anger or annoyance will not advance ones ability to persuade. when drafting your own personal dissent, act  dont react. be it verbally or via email, think carefully about the words you want to use and do your best to leave emotion out of it.\"when drafting your own personal dissent, act  dont react. be it verbally or via email, think carefully about the words you want to use and do your best to leave emotion out of it.dont take no for an answerif you feel your rights are denied for reasons you dont agree with, press on and steadily move past your barriers.rbg was never an agitator in her disposition, but she did what she could using her own talents and expertise to help achieve a more just society for all,\" knizhnik says. \"as she has seen the things she fought for threatened by the shifting political winds, she has spoken out. society has come a long way since rbg was denied a job at any law firm despite being at the top of her class at harvard and columbia law schools. however, injustice and inequality remain. rbg teaches us that we can all do our part to help move society forward.and, of course, dissent.

theres something about milestone birthdays that force you to take a long, hard look at how youre treating your body. at least, thats what turning 30 did to me.i was closing out a decade of my life that had i had kicked off not knowing how to operate a treadmill and getting most of my daily water intake by way of the melted ice in my well vodka cocktail. and although id corrected most of those bad behaviors by my late 20s (read: mastered the art of proper hydration and semi-frequent exercise), i knew i could still be doing a better job at eating the right foods  especially for gut health. so when i heard about a new at-home test by biohm health, i was interested to see just how well (or not) i was doing at treating my body like a responsible adult.putting my poop to the testyoure probably wondering: how does this whole testing your poop thing work? its surprisingly simple.the biohm kit comes in the mail and includes a test tube with a swab, directions for swabbing (ill spare you the details) and return packaging to send back to the lab. the test itself evaluates the bacteria and fungi profiles in your gut. the kit also comes with a questionnaire that youre required to fill out ahead of time that asks about your diet, exercise and lifestyle habits to help identify how your lifestyle may be affecting your gut health  and the possible changes you can make if your results come back less than favorable.walking through the resultsafter testing was complete, i set up a consultation with audrey phelps, registered dietitian nutritionist with biohm. she sent through the results ahead of our 30-minute call, which included charts of the bacteria and fungi makeup my gut encompassed, next to those of a healthy gut.the color-coded charts looked vastly different.at first glance the results seemed alarming, but phelps kicked off the call by talking me off the ledge. she explained how gut health is measured  which involves looking at the wide range of acceptable levels of bacteria and fungi in a healthy gut. several strains can range from zero to 60 percent and still be considered normal, she told me. the key factor is how the levels of a specific organism compare to overall balance. as a result, a high level may be okay in an otherwise balanced gut, while a low level may be concerning if there are several organisms that are out of balance.basically, the healthy charts are ranges of optimal levels theyd like to see  not hard percentages that need to be hit. she also told me not to be concerned about the fact that i was missing some of the bacteria and fungi profiles from my chart entirely. \"if you dont have one of the things on here that doesnt mean anything is wrong,\" she told me. \"people often panic when they see theyre missing one, but if you look further in the report, a normal range for some of these can be from 0 to .1. so if you dont have it, thats okay!\"for the sake of my own neurosis, i asked phelps to walk me through what each and every bacteria and fungi on my chart meant when it came to my health. one area that immediately caught my eye on the chart was proteobacteria  it was severely out of whack. as i was mentally preparing for phelps to dissect my diet, she instead said: \"tell me about your stress levels.\"apparently, my stress was showing up in my poop.sure, i work a full-time job and a part-time side hustle all while traveling for work on the regular and still trying to maintain some semblance of a social life, but how could she see that from a sample of my feces? \"we have a direct link between the gut and the brain  the gut brain access to the vagus nerve,\" phelps explained. \"when youre in a stressed out state, the vagus nerve in your brain says to your digestive system, dont worry about it, we have higher priorities. this diverts blood flow, which can cause constipation and heartburn because of slowed digestion. your body cant be in rest and digest mode when its in fight or flight mode,\" she said, which may explain my elevated levels of proteobacteria, due to inflammation in the gut.fixing my gut healththe next step in the process was talking through changes i could implement to help bring my levels back into a normal range. i had thought i was being pretty good about my daily fruit and veggie intake at around 4-5 cups per day of each, but according to phelps, my gut told a different story. my bacteroidetes level  a bacteria thats responsible for carbohydrate breakdown  was low. to increase those levels, phelps recommended increasing my daily fruit and vegetable intake to 8-9 cups per day. two of the \"good\" bacteria in my phylum, bifidobacteria and lactobacillus, were also low. these respond well to increased fiber, which means i should be adding beans and lentils into my diet  plus increasing my fermented food intake with things like kimchi and sauerkraut.as for managing the stress? phelps talked me through how to recognize the stress im under while its happening and prevent the bodily fight or flight response from being triggered by using a 4-8-7 breathing technique. this entails breathing in for a count of four, holding for a count of eight and exhaling for a count of seven. its essentially the opposite of hyperventilating, phelps explained. when you hyperventilate, your body is being told theres a problem, and that you need to accumulate oxygen. by doing the opposite, youre telling your body theres no reason for that, so it drops those cortisol levels to switch off that response. this technique is supposed to help get me out of that \"flight or flight\" mode thats triggered when im running from a deadline (and not a bear).how accurate are these tests?i have to admit, while it certainly cant hurt to put more produce on my plate and stop and breathe every once in awhile, i was still a little skeptical that by simply looking at my bacteria levels, one could conclude that i was stressed out. so i reached out to anton bilchik, md, phd, professor of surgery and chief of gastrointestinal research at john wayne cancer institute at providence saint johns health center in santa monica, ca.despite my results and diagnosis of stressing my gut into the danger zone of bad bacteria, dr. bilchik says science is a long way off from being able to peg one behavior to an increase of any one bacteria.\"what each specific bacteria is impacted by is such a complex area to understand  we are not at that point where we can say for sure that your proteobacteria level is up because youre stressed,\" he says. \"that may be one of the bacteria thats impacted by stress, but we dont know if its the most important one; chances are there are many, many more. its impossible at this point to relate it to one specific bacteria.\"basically, take these tests with a grain of salt. \"to date there is no specific test that has been scientifically validated and therefore these kits should be considered investigational  meaning definitely worth looking at, but knowing that there is no sufficient evidence to routinely consuming probiotics or any other products that may change the bacteria in our intestinal tract,\" says bilchik.however, there have been studies done on what food and behaviors have a positive and negative impact on gut health. incorporating these habits into our routine may just promote a healthier gut environment  no testing required.steer clear of added sugar. \"sugars overwhelm the microbiome in the colon, and reduce some of the important bacteria at the same time,\" bilchik explains. according to a study from the american society for nutrition, this can increase the bacteria associated with disease. to avoid this, stick with natural sugars like the ones found in fruit, and consume them in small amounts.avoid processed foods. \"too much processed food can tip the balance of the bacteria (microbiome) and the lining of the bowel,\" bilchik explains. an increase in bad bacteria in the microbiome can also have a negative impact on the immune system. to keep everything in check, stick with foods that are minimally processed.limit red meat. \"eating too much red meat can change the composition of the bacteria within the colon, and can promote the growth of bad bacteria which can have a negative effect on the immune system,\" says bilchik. if you have to eat it, bilchik recommends sticking to a small, lean cut of red meat on a once per week basis.eat more fruits and veggies. \"eating fruits and vegetables have been shown to enhance the effect of the good bacteria, to promote the interaction between the good bacteria and the immune system, and increase the absorption through the cells of the colon and the cells of the bowel,\" says bilchik. aim for at least two servings of fresh produce per day.exercise. studies have shown that exercise reduces inflammation, which is a big factor in promoting good gut health. \"when you exercise, certain hormones and proteins are released that lead to the reduction of cells that cause inflammation,\" says bilchik. you dont have to start running marathons to reap these benefits  aim for 30-45 minutes of exercise at least three times per week.more stress busting tipshow to manage stress so that it doesnt hurt your healthwhat is sophrology, the latest stress-busting mindfulness trend?stressed? heres how to tap into a zen feeling (almost) instantlyhow to bounce back from headline stress disorderwhy the simple act of being in nature helps you de-stresswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

are you looking to make take a leap ahead at work? while everyones career plans are different, 90 percent of millennials say that upward career mobility and annual raises are the key factors that would keep them in their jobs for the next 10 years. promotions are a clear indicator that your career is progressing and that youre valued by your company  its no wonder that working professionals seek upward mobility.whatever your goals may be, cultivating habits that will boost your workplace success is a strategic move. here are five new habits to adopt that will move you closer to your well-deserved promotion.1. learn to sell your ideasare you the type of person who always has a million ideas yet struggles to put them into practice? its time to put a full stop to this habit. while there may be genuine obstacles which impede action, a clear pattern of inaction wont help you grow your career.to break this pattern, learn how to effectively sell your ideas and get others on board. remind yourself that even some of the most important names in business and politics had to sell, negotiate, and be flexible with their ideas before they could move forward. micah pratt, marketing manager of business.org, offers the following advice: always create a business case for your idea which clearly states the business and user value, what steps need to be taken for it to succeed, as well as necessary team members. if youre able to effectively communicate the value and importance of your ideas, itll be easier to get other potential stakeholders onboard to put your plan into action.2. start implementing constructive feedbackconstructive criticism can be difficult to deal with. its natural to feel defensive when someone points out your weaknesses. however, ignoring criticism can be detrimental to your career. if you receive constructive feedback at work, it is important to take it seriously and act on it as soon as possible, says debra boggs, msm, co-founder of d&amp;s professional coaching. most managers do not like difficult conversations, so if they took the time, it is important to them..if your goal is to get a promotion, implement your managers feedback.make the changes your manager requested and then report back periodically on your progress to signal that you are serious about growing as a professional, says boggs. when leaders look to promote people, they are seeking those who can take constructive feedback and act on it. growth opportunities are exciting yet they come with a new level of responsibility and work. as such, its important that promoted individuals can take feedback because they may need coaching and course correction along the way. i have personally seen professionals earn promotions after doing great work only to be fired later for resistance to grow and learn in their new role, boggs says.3. implement key learnings from past failuresfor many professionals, failure feels like a clear indication of their shortcomings. a recent study on perfectionism in college students found that the energy behind perfectionism comes largely from a desire to avoid failure. if youre too focused on the possibility of failure, you wont push yourself to achieve your big long-term goals  and good managers understand that high-risk goals can lead to failure.instead of overanalyzing and avoiding failure, use it as a tool for growth. failure can help you uncover avoidable mistakes and teach you how to pay closer attention to detail and not rush tasks. if you arent afraid to fail then you can take more risks which can provide valuable new knowledge for your company. being able to not only take responsibility for failure, but to learn and grow from it, is a valuable skill which will set you apart from your competition.4. arrive to work on timetime management is important for professionals, says becky flynn, a career coach at the university of utahs business career services. according to flynn, professionalism was ranked by the national association of colleges and employers (nace) as one of the most important attributes desired by employers, and time management which is an important component of professionalism. coming to work late every once in a while with a good reason in tow is understandable. whats not acceptable, however, is showing a consistent pattern of arriving to work and meetings late.a pattern of arriving late can make others question your dedication and commitment to the business. it indicates that your job is not as much of a priority for you as it should be, explains matt dubin, ph.d. in organizational psychology, founder of matt dubin consulting. this behavior can show that you are putting your needs ahead of your teams and that you are not responsible and organized  not the type of behavior valued by senior leaders.make sure to go above and beyond when youre in the office, dubin says. offer to take on extra tasks and help your colleagues with their own projects. contribute during meetings, ask thoughtful questions, and stay present even when tempted by distractions on your phone.5. increase your visibility with senior leadersperhaps youre used to getting your work done without involving others. its essential that youre able to work independently, but always going solo can be detrimental to career growth. working with others helps you build camaraderie with a wider group of people and exposes you to new ideas. if youve gotten into the habit of working alone, make an effort to increase your visibility with other team members  especially company leaders.research has shown that leaders are more likely to promote people theyre comfortable with, so its important to find opportunities to rub shoulders with senior management, whether its by joining a key task force or volunteering to run an extra-curricular event thats important to the company, says carter cast, a clinical professor at the kellogg school of management and author of \"the right (and wrong) stuff: how brilliant careers are made  and unmade.\"take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

with the news this week of the deaths of kate spade and anthony bourdain, reactions and commentary are pouring in on social media. people who never met them are grasping for answers as to why these icons could meet such a tragic end. specifically they may be asking, how could they do this? its a common question in the aftermath of a suicide that, though typically innocent in nature, is loaded with crucial misunderstandings about suicide and, in some cases, mental illness.what exactly is the problem? partly its in the language. asking how someone could do this puts responsibility on the victim, just as the phrase committed suicide suggests an almost criminal intent. depression and other mental illnesses are leading risk factors for suicide. this is why mental health advocates usually employ the term died by suicide, as it removes culpability from the person who has lost their life and allows a discussion about the disease or disorder from which they were suffering.that said, suicide is rarely caused by one single factor. according to a vital signs report, centers for disease control (cdc) researchers found that 54 percent people who died by suicide were not known to have a mental illness diagnosis. while many cases of suicide are attributed to mental illness diagnoses, other issues like relationship and financial stress and substance abuse contribute to rising rates of suicide.in the moment, what seems irrational can feel completely rationalin interviewing people who have [survived] suicide, what becomes apparent is that suicide in the moment that they attempt to enact it seems to them a very logical solution to their problems, says dr. anna lembke, an associate professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences (general psychiatry and psychology-adult) at stanford university medical center. most often their problem is feeling profoundly unworthy, profoundly depressed and profoundly burdensome to others. what seems irrational from the outside in their mind is, in that moment, completely rational. and this thought of being a burden is a recurring theme that comes up again and again.dr. rebecca bernert, a suicidologist and the director/founder of the suicide prevention research laboratory at stanford school of medicine adds that research suggests that people at greatest risk for suicide may perceive themselves to be a burden or feel a lack of belongingness, even if this may be a harmful misperception.because this feeling of being a burden is so strong, suicide can be viewed as not a selfish act but almost a selfless act, by its victims, dr. lembke explains. theres a gross underestimation of the psychological impact of what a suicide will be, even to loved ones, and an irrational sense that [ones death] will help people, even those they love the most. this thinking is deeply informed by being in an altered mental state caused usually by depression or depression and psychosis.not every depressed person develops suicidal thoughts and not every person who dies by suicide is depressednot everyone who suffers from depression will have suicidal thoughts. and not everyone who has suicidal thoughts will act on them. why are some people more at risk than others? theres no one answer for this complicated issue.suicide is a complex outcome of medical illness and a diverse interplay of risk factors, says dr. bernert. though a symptom of depression, suicidal behaviors exist on a continuum of risk, ranging in severity from suicidal thoughts to attempts to death by suicide. only a small fraction of those with depression will go on to die by suicide.dr. urszula klich, a clinical health psychologist who implemented suicide prevention training program in a previous role at shepherd center in atlanta, georgia, notes that in her current experience treating chronic pain patients (which she notes as a very high-risk category for suicide), some patients, no matter how depressed they are, never have suicidal thoughts and never does their depression manifest to their being at risk for suicide.just as a depressed person may never become suicidal, a person who has never been depressed can become suicidal  seemingly out of the blue. but there is almost always, dr. klich says, some form of working up to the act. sometimes a loved one can detect and intervene (successfully or not); sometimes they cant.if we take a look at the acquired ability or the so-called capability a person has when completing suicide, we know they work up to the act. we see some things unfolding. they may have talked about it with someone, and that person will later recall them saying something odd. but we also see suicidal patients doing some sort of rehearsals, she says. they may not even be planning suicide, but theyre playing around with the idea. maybe, if they have a gun, they will take it out and load it and then unload it and put it away. or, in the case of overdoses, theyll take out pills and count them, dr. kilch says.these planful behaviors, as dr. bernert puts it, signal a heightened risk, even if the act itself may appear differently.if you know someone at risk, get specific with your questionsto be clear, this doesnt mean that survivors of loved ones who died by suicide missed warning signs, because you cant miss signs if you dont know theyre there; and as dr. klich points out, certain suicidal behaviors can only be aptly picked up on by trained professionals, especially in the case of those mentally rehearsing or visualizing  symptoms that can occur without the persons full awareness that this is indeed a kind of suicidal thinking. additionally, because millions of americans have depression and dont have with suicidal thoughts, it can be hard if not impossible to tell who is at risk and who is not.but if youre concerned about a loved one being at risk, you can possibly help by speaking up.speak with your loved one about how they are feeling and encourage help-seeking by way of the many resources available, including the american association for suicide prevention and american association of suicidology and confidential helplines, says dr. bernert.and be direct in your conversations when you can. dr. klich finds that because suicide is so stigmatized (and also, just a really tough thing to talk about), people tend to skirt around the issue, or even unintentionally steer victims of suicidal thoughts toward a reassuring answer.very often people will say, you wont do anything, right? she says. i see this even in the medical field. professionals will say to patients, you havent thought about self-harm or suicide, right? who would answer positively in response to that? not many people.maybe a better way to ask is to leave it open-ended and nonjudgmental. you might want to say, are you having suicidal thoughts or imaginings?an ongoing struggle to understandwhen were grieving this kind of death, well likely have questions. even now, perfect strangers are trying to put together a puzzle of what happened to result in these celebrity deaths, of what they missed, of why we had no idea of their possible struggles (not that they are any of the publics business).but if someone you did know has died by suicide caused by a mental illness and are looking for a way to understand it, consider dr. lembkes moving analogy.we talk about death with cancer and heart disease but not death when associated with mental illness, says dr. lembke. but some people do die from it. suicide is like a massive heart attack of the brain.if youre feeling triggered or at risk, please follow dr. bernerts advice:confidential support is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by way of the national suicide prevention lifeline (1-800-273-talk) or the crisis test line, she says. these are available to anyone, whether in crisis or concerned about a loved one who is experiencing distress.

how much is that soul cycle class, again? its an important question to ask given some new research from td bank that shows most millennials prioritize healthy eating and staying in shape over saving more and spending less. of course, a healthy lifestyle is never a bad thing. the trouble arises when you start spending more than your budget allows on things like exclusive classes, nightly smoothies and personal trainers  which is an all-too-easy trap to fall into.you could have the fittest body in the world, but if youre finding yourself strapped by debt or financial insecurity, it doesnt matter if you can run a marathon or not  your mental state is going to make you unhealthy, says kimberlee davis, managing director and partner at wealth management firm the bahnsen group. the good news is that a long run in the park can be just as beneficial as a $40 barre class, and if you have your finances in order, youre more likely to be healthy in other areas, too. heres how to get both your finances and your fitness working in your favor.striking the balancetheres little debating that being healthy does often require some financial investment in the way of healthy food and exercise. on the flipside, theres a tremendous economic cost to obesity that cant be ignored. so how do you strike the balance?first, recognize that the healthcare costs of being unhealthy can quickly usurp what youd spend at the gym. in other words, the $40 spin class and vitamin supplements you purchase today will wind up being much cheaper than the doctors copays youll be saddled with if you develop diabetes, heart disease or any of the other conditions associated with extra weight, says jillian cohen, ceo &amp; co-founder of virtual health partners, an online wellness platform that offers nutritionist appointments, live fitness classes, and more. theres a cost to you, to society, and to your employer that insures you, she says. which is not to say you should be dropping $40 on a regular spin class when you cant afford it.while its certainly possible to spend thousands of dollars per year on healthy food options, (weve all seen the menus with the $20 salad and the $10 burger and fries) you can save money when you cut the bad stuff out of your diet. once youve made the decision to lead a healthy lifestyle, youre not going to be eating out every day, cohen says. making things at home and packing your lunch is going to save you so much money.think ahead (or automate so you dont have to)its difficult for some people to think ahead to their retirement years, which is why many people opt for short-term rewards instead of putting money away for future. thats a problem. research from fidelity investments projects that a 65-year-old couple will need $280,000 just for non-reimbursed medical expenses in retirement. the easiest way to get yourself to save enough is to automate contributions wherever possible  that includes your 401(k) or other retirement plan, emergency fund and health savings account. the game is very, very long, but you have to start playing early, davis says. when your money has a 30-year period to mature, its going to do a lot more than if it has only a 10-year period.healthy finances = confidenceself esteem and money are inextricably linked  the td bank study showed that 41 percent of those satisfied with their financial health are more likely to be satisfied with their physical health, emotional wellness and family well-being. that makes sense, davis says. healthy finances give us a greater sense of independence. in addition, the vast majority of people surveyed  87 percent  said that goals (including fitness, health, career, etc.) became easier to accomplish when their finances were in order. clearly, its a worthwhile pursuit. so how do you boost your confidence?one word: education. were terrified of what we dont know, davis says. thats why these topics are intimidating to us. start by digging into specific financial topics online. if youre looking for an overhaul of your entire financial life  akin to a financial physical  sitting down for a few hours with a financial planner makes sense. it doesnt have to cost a bundle. if you have a retirement plan at work, you may be eligible to meet with a planner one-on-one for free. otherwise, there are fee-only financial advisors through the garrett planning network who are willing to charge by the hour.when in doubt, budget for your health and fitness goalsretail therapy makes us feel good  even when were buying a pack of sessions with a trainer or new running shoes. unfortunately, it can be easy to feel that we deserve purchases like these, since staying healthy is so important. but we have to create boundaries to prevent overspending on health and wellness just like we would with any other category of our budget.there are things like rent and the electric bill, and those are non-disposable every month, cohen says. then there are other things like a gym membership and classes, and those need to be rated according to how happy they make you, and what you feel youre getting out of them. once you rate them, come up with a short list of what you both enjoy and can afford, she says. from there, youll be able to see exactly what youre spending where, and what you might be able to scrap in favor of something else.when youre making health-related purchases, a good rule of thumb is to ask yourself of each item: do i really need this to be healthy? cohen says. it may be that you dont need a gym membership at all  you can reach your goals by doing two classes per week and running outside. the idea that you have to spend a lot of money to be fit is a myth.with kathryn tuggleget more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 daysneed to save money fast? try a spending banwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as a personal finance writer, ive read quite a few articles about how to limit your spending. a lot of people in the online personal finance community preach frugality to a level where it becomes somewhat of a challenge  the less you spend, the more impressive you are.but to me, money cant buy happiness is one of those mantras that gets thrown around a lot without much consideration. sure, most people accept that having more material things doesnt lead to being happier overall. but we also cant deny that more money means more freedom.a famous study from princeton claimed that more money coincides with higher levels of happiness only up until one reaches a salary of $75,000, and after that, happiness levels taper off. while that specific number is often argued, the basic idea rings true for a lot of us: we find trouble shaking off the idea that having more money would solve all of our problems, when just some more money would suffice.i can say that, in my own personal life, earning more money has correlated with more happiness. when i was working temp jobs in an expensive city for my first year out of college, i had to work more hours to try to make ends meet. while i still have yet to hit that magical $75k milestone, ive increased my income enough that more of my time feels like my own. its not that im simply spending more on stuff, but that the anxiety over money is diminished  i can work a regular amount without having to worry about making my rent or whether that extra seamless order will push my credit card bill over the edge.earning more also means that i have more freedom to spend on things that do bring me joy. but these things arent necessarily what we associate with buying happiness  they are not material items meant to help me keep up with the joneses (even the coachella-attending, instagram-story-posting millennial version of them). my happiness budget is money set aside for things that either a) make me feel the best in my day-to-day, or b) are things i simply enjoy the most. here are just some of the things my happiness budget allows me to pay for:monthly dinners at my favorite italian restaurant, and trying out other spots in between those visitsspontaneous theater tickets with friendsingredients for testing new-to-me pie recipesa monthly pass to unlimited yoga classes at a studio near my officedays spent hiking and wine tasting outside of my cityoccasional movie screenings and museum visitsdiy projects that help make my home a place i love spending timeafter reading david futrelles \"heres how money can really buy you happiness\" article for time, i realized a lot of these expenses are what help me attain flow, which futrelle explains as such:take, for instance, my monthly yoga studio pass. many frugal-minded personal finance experts and would advise you to save that money and instead use youtube videos or home gym equipment to stay active for much less money. but to me, that $95 a month is an investment in my own happiness. i leave every class feeling stronger, lighter and more flexible, and ive learned that i cant get the same kind of motivation without the monetary component. i wouldnt exercise nearly as much all by myself, and when i would, i wouldnt push myself nearly as far.but not everything in my happiness budget is meant to push or better myself. some of it is simply about enjoyment in the moment, which actually provides even more joy down the line, since experiences eventually become memories. as futrelle writes,summer is basically begging us to compare our lives to the ones we see on social media. but instead of focusing on whats outside of you, consider starting your own happiness budget. it doesnt have to be big  set aside as little as $10 or $20 a week, and put it towards anything that genuinely contributes to your happiness.when deciding whether something does or doesnt qualify, ask yourself these questions:is this going to create a lasting impact in the form of memories?do i want to spend on this because i honestly enjoy it, or do i just think i should enjoy it because other people do?is this pushing me in a healthy way?is there something new ive been wanting to try, but havent out of fear or lack of time?being good with money doesnt mean never spending any of it; it means learning to differentiate between what is or isnt worth it. you dont have to spend a ton of money, and you certainly shouldnt go into debt trying to pay for happiness. but being willing to part with some money in exchange for your own emotional well-being is a core tenet of a healthy life. (and yes  even hyper-frugal fire-seekers can have happiness budgets.)anything that is valuable to you and that genuinely improves your quality of life is an investment in your own happiness, and simply put, that alone is worth spending on.get more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 daysneed to save money fast? try a spending banwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

whether youre an early-morning runner or a post-work spin junkie, having a little something in your stomach is key to fueling an effective workout.weve all heard the clich that food is fuel, but its really true. i equate it to, if you dont have gas in the tank, the car isnt going to move, says natalie rizzo, a nyc based registered dietitian and the founder of nutrition  la natalie. some people will go from lunch to dinner without eating; thats 5-6 hours. in general, food gives you energy for exercise, so if you havent eaten youre not going to have as much energy and not see as many gains from your workout as you want to.but it turns out that the wrong snack  or too much of the right one  can also derail your efforts.its great that you work out, but if youre only at the gym for 45 minutes and 20 of that is spent in moderate intensity on the elliptical, you can maybe have a banana beforehand, but you dont need a huge pre-workout snack and thats what i see people do, says rizzo. they fuel too much and take in more calories than they are even burning off. most recreational athletes are trying to maintain their fitness, so they want to make sure theyre not eating more than they need, because you dont want to be bringing in extra calories and gaining weight.in order to determine the right snack to fuel your workout, rizzo recommends asking yourself these three questions:1. how intense is my workout going to be?first, look at the type of intensity. low-intensity exercises like yoga or pilates wont require as much fuel. with something like yoga, where youre not really getting your heart pumping that much, the body doesnt need the glucose or the extra energy to get you through those kinds of activities. it can rely on what you already have stored in your body, says rizzo. moderately intense exercise like strength training or a relaxing bike ride burns up some carbs, and high-intensity exercise uses your carb stores  you may even need to replace carbs during exercise if its for extended periods, like running a long race, she adds. \"carbs break down really easily for cardio workouts  when your heart rate is really pumping, youre breathing heavy and you cant carry on a conversation. you need carbs for that kind of workout; it breaks down to glucose and gets in the bloodstream really quickly, which gives you energy.\"2. how far in advance of a workout am i eating?the healthy carbs you need to fuel your workout depends on when youre eating it. rizzos rule of thumb is: 1-2 hours before, choose a more complex snack; 30-60 minutes before, stick to something simple. if youre eating two hours before exercise you want something that has some fiber in it, which we consider complex carbs; they take longer to break down in the system. some good options include whole-wheat bread, quinoa leftover from lunch, a sweet potato, my maple tahini energy balls that are made with oats, she says. if youre eating something 30 minutes before youre going out for a run or spin class, you want something thats going to break down really quickly, which would be something like fruit, dried mango or dates. i know some runners who will do juice or a piece of white toast [before a long run] because they dont have the fiber, so it breaks down more quickly.3. what portion size is right for me?now that you know what youre eating, its time to decide how much, which is also contingent on how far out you are from activity. most of the time sports nutrition recommendations are for people who are collegiate or olympic athletes and theyre eating 3000-4000 calories a day, says rizzo. but in general, people like us who are going to spin class or running really only need 1800-2000 calories a day, and snacks are usually only 100-300 calories each. if youre a few hours out from your workout, aim for the higher end of that range, says rizzo, if its only 30 minutes before, it may be just 100 calories, like an apple or banana.the perfect pre-workout snackif youre looking a snack few hours before a workout, having a batch of these energy balls on hand will provide the perfect combo of carbs, protein and healthy fats to fuel an intense, endurance workout  like a spin class, hiit workout or longer run.they are about 200 calories each. so i would suggest 1 or 1 1/2 (about the size of a golf ball) per serving before intense exercise, says rizzo. you can make a big batch and store them in the fridge (the fridge hardens them a little) and grab one or two each day before a workout.the ingredients are a carefully chosen combo meant to fuel intense exercise. i love oats because they are full of fiber and whole grains so they give you those carbs you need, but they are also gluten free so people who cant tolerate gluten can still have them, says rizzo. tahini is allergy free for people who cant do nuts and it has a little bit of fat and protein  if you have a few hours before your workout, you need a more well-balanced snack. you can make them with or without dark chocolate, but i like to add it for a little extra flavor. the chocolate and the maple syrup give you a little bit of sugar. people tend to be scared of sugar, but the carbs break down into sugar in your bloodstream and give you the fuel that you need. these ingredients will give you the extra energy boost you need for those more intense activities.tahini maple oat bitesmakes 10 servingsingredients 1 1/2 cup oats, separated 1/4 cup and 1 tablespoon tahini 3 tablespoons pure maple syrup 1 tablespoon flax seeds 1/4 cup dark or semi-sweet chocolate chipspreparation1. add 1/2 cup oats to food processor or blender. blend until it becomes a powder consistency.2. to a large bowl, add the oat flour, remaining 1 cup of oats, tahini, maple syrup and flax seeds. mix with a spoon until well combined. (editors note: rizzo is a spokesperson for pure maple syrup from canada.)3. add the dark chocolate chips to the bowl and stir.4. using your hands, form small balls (about the size of a golf ball) and place on a parchment paper lined plate or cutting board. put in the fridge for at least an hour. store in the fridge until youre ready to eatnutritional info (per energy ball): 205 calories; 10 grams fat; 6 grams protein; 6 grams sugar; 4 grams fibermore tips and tricks from a nutritionisthow to build a better smoothiehealthy trader joes products nutritionists swear bywhats the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?seriously filling salads youll want to eat all summerbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

prize scams are as old as the hills, but people keep falling for them  sending the fraudsters hundreds, sometimes thousands of dollars to claim their cash, luxury cars or other non-existent prizes.sweepstakes, lottery and prize scams are among the most serious and pervasive frauds operating today, according to a new report from the better business bureau. and along with phone calls, letters and email, the crooks are now using text messages, pop-ups and phony facebook messages to lure their victims. in fact, social media is now involved in a third of the sweepstakes fraud complaints received by the fbis internet crime complaint center (ic3).scammers are like viruses. they mutate and adapt and find things that work, said steve baker, former director of the federal trade commissions midwest region and author of the bbb report. the crooks have discovered social media big time and since social media is free to use, they can easily do a whole lot of damage from other countries.the bbb study found that:nearly 500,000 people reported a sweepstakes, lottery or other prize scam to law enforcement agencies in the u.s. and canada in the last three years.monetary losses totaled $117 million last year.facebook messenger lottery fraudscammers are creating bogus websites that look like a legitimate lottery or sweepstakes site. or they are reaching out to potential victims who dont properly set their privacy settings on social media platforms such as facebook.the bbb report says facebook messenger, the private messaging app, is a favorite way for fraudsters to find victims. they can use messenger  with or without a facebook profile  and contact people who are not facebook friends.in many cases, the bogus message appears to be from publishers clearing house (pch) congratulating you on winning a big prize. to claim that prize, it says, you need to send them money.thats a red flag warning, said chris irving, a pch assistant vice president. if anybody asks you to send money to collect a prize, you know its a scam and its not from the real publishers clearing house. at publishers clearing house or any legitimate sweepstakes, the winning is always free  no purchase, no payment, no taxes or customs to pay.the crooks also impersonate facebook founder mark zuckerberg in some of their phony messenger messages.they post a fake profile of zuckerberg on facebook, baker said. then they send you a message through the facebook messenger system saying: hi this is mark zuckerberg. im delighted to be able to tell you that you have won the facebook lottery and here is the person you need to contact to get the money. take the bait and click the link, and youll be told to send money to claim your winnings. of course, there is no facebook lottery and zuckerberg is not sending prize notices to anyone.in a recent story on social media scams, the new york times reported it found 208 accounts that impersonated zuckerberg or facebook coo sheryl sandberg on facebook and instagram. at least 51 of the impostor accounts, including 43 on instagram, were lottery scams. (in 2012, facebook purchased instagram for $1 billion.)facebook says its working to stop the scammers who use its platform to trick people out of their money. in march, the company announced it was using new machine learning techniques that helped it detect more than a half-million accounts related to fraudulent activity.these ploys are not allowed on facebook and were constantly working to better defend against them, said product manager scott dickens. while we block millions of fake accounts at registration every day, we still need to focus on the would-be scammers who manage to create accounts. our new machine learning models are trained on previously confirmed scams to help detect new ones.the company has also posted a warning on how to avoid facebook scams.the bbb report calls on facebook and other social media platforms to make additional efforts to prevent fake profiles and to make it easier for users to contact them about fraud.fraudsters pretend to be a facebook friendjohn, a retired teacher from omaha, neb., lost thousands of dollars before he realized he was the victim of a prize scam. (john asked that his full name not be used for security reasons.)the con started with a bogus messenger message from a friend who said hed won $100,000 in a facebook contest and he noticed johns name was also on the list. all john needed to do was contact wendy via messenger to collect his $100,000 prize.wendy told john his money would arrive via \"fed x\" (sic) within 24 hours. you are required to keep the money secret until you get it, to avoid being robbed on our way to your doorstep, she wrote.he was instructed to wire $900 to pay for shipping, which he did. then came requests for more money to cover taxes and fees. john was told to wire another $5,000 to cover the cost of escort officers to deliver the check. wendy even sent him a bogus homeland security escort certificate to justify the expense.i assumed it was legitimate because my friend said it was and i trusted him, john told nbc news better. i didnt see any red flags because they never asked for my bank account or social security number.wendy was able to string john along for three weeks and in that time got him to send her $9,000.protect yourselfpeople trust their social media friends and the crooks exploit this. its simple to do. criminals can either clone a real profile and reach out to that persons friends or hijack someones facebook account. login credentials, along with just about everything else, are sold on the dark web.the bbb suggests several ways to distinguish fake prize notices from the real ones, whether they arrive by phone, mail, text, email or social media:true lotteries or sweepstakes dont ask for any money  not for shipping and handling, taxes or customs. if they want money for any reason, theyre crooks.law enforcement does not call and award prizes. if you get such a call, hang up.you cant win a contest you didnt enter. you cant win a lottery unless you bought a ticket.publishers clearing house does not contact people in advance to tell them theyve won.still not sure if its a scam? call the lottery or sweepstakes company directly to see if you really won.take the time to stop and think before you do anything. check with a trusted friend or family member, contact your local better business bureau or talk to your bank. if you fall for the pitch and wire money to a prize scammer, youll never get it back.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as summer sets in, im getting excited about all the delicious fruits that are coming into season. theres just one problem: they all seem to play by their own rules when it comes to how to best store them for freshness, knowing when theyre ripe, and salvaging them once theyre past their prime. regretfully, ive tossed out many a mushy avocado and tasteless peach because i somehow missed the window for eating them and/or didnt store them properly.how can one avoid this wastefulness  and enjoy these summer fruits, even if that means repurposing them after theyve gone bad? lisa samuels, registered dietitian and founder of the happie house gave us the rundown on several star summer fruits.mangoeswhen theyre ripe: you can tell mangoes are ripe by the color of their skin. when they are more on the green side, they are not yet ready to be eaten, says samuels. a ripe mango will appear reddish/yellow in color. the softer the fruit, the riper it is. it also releases a sweet smelling fragrance from the stem-end.how to store: harder, unripe mangoes can sit out on the counter at room temperature until ripened; dont refrigerate them before they ripen, says samuels. after they ripen, you can store mangoes in the fridge. the typical shelf life of a mango is about seven to 14 days, but may vary.how to enjoy when theyre overripe: make a puree. you can freeze that in ice cube trays and use for smoothies, or you can portion it out and save for things like mango cheesecake or a chilled mango daiquiri. you can also portion the puree into popsicle molds.avocadoshow to know when theyre ripe: ripe avocados typically have darker skin; however, the most common way to determine their ripeness is through texture, says samuels. the avocado should yield to gentle pressure when squeezing it. another way to determine if an avocado is ripe is to look at the stem end. if you go to move the stem and it doesnt come off, the avocado is not yet ripe. if you move the stem and the flesh underneath is green, its good to go and will make a deliciously bright green guacamole, [but], if the stem flesh under the stem is brown, the avocado is overripe and will most likely contain brown spots on the flesh inside.how to store: when stored at room temperature on the countertop, avocados take about four to seven days to ripen. as soon as you notice the avocado [is ripe], you can put in the refrigerator. the best way to extend the shelf life of an avocado is to refrigerate in a plastic bag, which will extend the shelf life to about four to seven days. without the bag, a ripe avocado will last in the fridge for three to five days.how to enjoy when theyre overripe: make a face mask [by combining] an avocado with an egg white and lemon juice. [overripe avocados] also make a wonderful hair conditioning treatment when combined with olive oil and honey. you can also use it as a replacement for butter or mayo on toast, or use them in baking for brownies or as a base for chocolate mousse (they make baked goods creamy and moist and are a great way to add nutritional value to dessert!).watermelonshow to know when theyre ripe: watermelons have a thick rind, so it is often difficult to tell when theyre ripe, notes samuels. the first way to tell is by looking at its field spot. this is the spot that has had contact with the ground during the fruits growth, and is located on the belly, or the wider part of the watermelon. in an unripe watermelon, this spot is usually white; once the fruit ripens, it turns a yellowish color. another way to find a ripe watermelon is to knock on it. one that is ripe will have a hollow sound to it. it takes about two weeks for a watermelon to ripen, and has a shelf life of seven to 10 days uncut on the counter.how to store: once you cut a watermelon, its best to store it in the fridge. it will stay for about three to five days in there, says samuels.how to enjoy when theyre overripe: when a watermelon is a little past its prime you can puree it for popsicles, watermelon soup, watermelon juice for smoothies, punch, a cocktail or watermelon sorbet, says samuels. you can even use the rind and pickle it for a delicious, healthy snack.peacheshow to know when theyre ripe: peaches can be deceptive. sometimes, even though they feel and smell ripe, when you bite into it there is a lack of flavor and an odd texture, notes samuels. the first sign of a perfectly ripened peach is the color. they should be more of a deep gold color and not as red. another way to tell if a peach is truly ripe is to look at the skin; if it is shriveled or wrinkled around the stem end of the peach, it is perfectly ripe and ready to eat. also, contrary to other fruits, the texture of the peach will be soft to very soft when its ready to eat.how to store: unripe peaches should be left on the counter at room temperature until they are ripe. ripe peaches can be stored in the refrigerator for two to three days, but they are best when eaten right away. if you store a ripe peach in the refrigerator for too long, it becomes dehydrated and that changes the texture of the flesh inside. if you cant get to all your peaches at their peak ripeness, the best thing to do is freeze them.how to enjoy when theyre overripe: peel and slice and freeze on a baking sheet before transferring to a plastic bag (to avoid clumping). these frozen peach slices are very versatile and can be used in anything from smoothies to cobblers and pies.\"strawberrieshow to know when theyre ripe: ripe strawberries are totally red in color. they also emit a sweet smell.how to store: strawberries can be stored in the refrigerator for three to seven days, says samuels. its best not to wash them all at once, and only do so before youre ready to eat. washing them all at once will shorten their shelf life.how to enjoy when theyre overripe: aside from using them in baked goods such as pies, tarts and muffins, you can also use overripe strawberries to make jams and jellies, strawberry ice cream or sorbet, and strawberry butter (combine strawberries with softened butter in a blender),\" says samuels. \"you can even dry the strawberries for a healthy version of a fruit snack (place in the oven at 225 for two to three hours, or place in a dehydrator).cherrieshow to know when theyre ripe: \"cherries can vary in color from deep red to yellow to pink; when the fullest [color] expression of the cherry is evident, they are ready to eat. ripe cherries should also feel firm, notes samuels.how to store: samuels recommends storing cherries in a plastic bag in the refrigerator for about one week.how to enjoy when theyre overripe: overripe cherries can be used to make pies, jams or cherry juice,\" samuels suggests. \"you can also use them as a sauce for cheesecake, or create jams and jellies.blueberrieshow to know when theyre ripe: blueberries do not ripen after harvest, so they must be ripe when purchased, notes samuels. ripe blueberries are all blue; there is no redness in them. the chalky white coating should also be present: this is a natural protector for the fruit. avoid blueberries at the store that have been exposed to misters.how to store: blueberries should not be washed prior to storage. only wash them right before eating, because the water on the surface speeds up degradation,\" says samuels. \"blueberries last longest when stored in a bowl and covered with plastic wrap in the refrigerator for about two weeks.\"how to enjoy when theyre overripe: blueberries that are a little past their prime are perfect for freezing and can stay frozen for up to a year. you can also can or jar them, or make them into a sauce, says samuels.raspberrieshow to know when theyre ripe: raspberries are ripe when they have a bright vibrant color (whether they are of the red or golden variety). they should also be nice and firm in texture,\" says samuels. \"avoid purchasing raspberries that are dented or bruised or mushy  these are most likely past their prime and on the way to spoilage. also, be sure you are purchasing berries that have not been exposed to moisture. you can check the bottom of the container to make sure there is no dampness or mold.how to store: store raspberries in the fridge in a breathable container (they typically are purchased in a container with slats at the bottom). do not store them in a crisper because the air may be more humid, which is damaging to raspberries,\" explains samuels. \"they will keep for about two to three days in the refrigerator.how to enjoy when theyre overripe: samuels suggests using overripe raspberries in baking: \"of course pies and cobblers are delicious), but you can also use them in brownies, or with other chocolatey delights, she says.clean each fruit and disinfect the fridgecertainly the last thing anyone wants is to get sick, so be sure to wash your fruit well no matter how thick its rind, and keep it separate from other types of food (especially meat) if storing in the fridge.the refrigerator fruit and vegetable compartments are actually among the germiest places in the kitchen, says lisa yakas, senior product manager and a microbiologist at nsf international, a global public health and safety organization. so, if you are going to keep your fruits in the refrigerator, make sure [it] has been properly cleaned and disinfected first.more tips and tricks from a nutritionisthow to build a better smoothiehealthy trader joes products nutritionists swear bywhats the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?seriously filling salads youll want to eat all summerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

brigitte nielsen announced this week that shes pregnant at 54. senator tammy duckworth recently gave birth to daughter maile a month after she turned 50. janet jackson also had a child at 50. so did singer/songwriter sophie b. hawkins. supermodel iman had daughter alexandria when she was 48.contrary to oft dispensed fertility advice, women are postponing pregnancy until (or, in nielsens case, having her fifth child) later in life at rising rates. mary jane minkin, clinical professor of obstetrics &amp; gynecology at yale university, says birth rates among older women have definitely increased.older moms are on the riseplenty of data exists to support this observation. according to a 2017 report from the cdc, birth rates declined for women aged 1539 from 2016 to 2017 but rose for women aged 4044. in fact, women in their early 40s were the only group with higher birth rates in 2017, up 2 percent from the year.then again, women have always had what was once referred to as change of life babies, or babies born during perimenopause. though conceiving a child near or at 50 isnt as easy as is when you are half that age, its certainly possible. a 2015 study following 49 essentially healthy women through 59 clinical pregnancies (there were some multiples) determined the obvious; though there were some first trimester miscarriages, the majority of the appropriately screened women  meaning women who receive the health care they need  were able deliver their children successfully, but not without an increased risk of pre-eclampsia and gestational diabetes. the conclusion stated a significant majority of pregnant women in this age group should expect a cesarean delivery (c-section).how these pregnancies happengetting pregnant without intervention, however, can be an issue. the chances of a women conceiving at 50 is not well studied. however, without any reproductive assistance, the chance of spontaneous conception is likely less than 1 percent, says scott a. shainker, do at beth israel deaconess medical center in boston, ma. not exactly betting odds.some scientists are hard at work to change all that. according to an article in new scientist, a greek fertility clinic is a trying to help menopausal women get pregnant using their own eggs by injecting their own platelet-rich plasma directly into their ovaries and uterus, with the goal of repairing their reproductive systems.until unconventional methods like this become conventional, minkin says if a healthy woman in this age range wants to get pregnant but is unable to make eggs on her own, she could be a good candidate to have a donor egg fertilized with sperm in vitro, and have the embryo implanted into her uterus.rhonda collins, the oakland, ca-based co-founder and ceo of an online toy recycling community called toy-cycle, had twins at the age of 48 via ivf using donor eggs from the czech republic. she says her doctor wasnt particularly alarmist about her pregnancy: my ob-gyn did not treat me differently. i live in a major urban center, so i think older moms are more common than perhaps smaller towns or rural areas, she recalls.child and maternal health factors change with ageconceiving a child without ivf, iui or other interventions, also presents an increased risk of certain chromosomal problems as we age. the chance of having a baby with downs syndrome is about 1 in 800 at age 30; whereas at age 40 its about 1 in a 100; and at age 44 its about 1 in 25, says minkin. of course, with donor eggs the age-related genetics are of the donor  so that if a 45-year old woman is carrying an egg from a woman aged 30, the risk of down syndrome is that of the 30-year old.it can also be more challenging to maintain your health while pregnant the closer you get to 50. the chance of becoming hypertensive and diabetic do increase with age, and these potential health issues become magnified with pregnancy, says minkin. during pregnancy, the heart has to work 50 percent harder than in the non-pregnant state  our circulating fluid volume goes up by a full 50 percent. so, if someone has marginal heart function in the non-pregnant state, she should not put the added stress of the pregnancy on it, she advises.with donor eggs the age-related genetics are of the donor  so that if a 45-year old woman is carrying an egg from a woman aged 30, the risk of down syndrome is that of the 30-year old.and according to the american heart association, the increased risk of heart attack and stroke doesnt end once you deliver. compared to younger women, pregnancies at age 40 and older increased the risk of later strokes and heart attacks by a percentage point or more.collins delivery wasnt without complications. i was all ready for labor  music, overnight bag, snacks, the whole thing. but with the development of pre-eclampsia, i was taken in for an urgent c-section that same day. i didnt get to lie-in with my daughters as i had planned  still an emotional loss for me. they were sent to the nursery and then the nicu and i saw them 24 hours later when i got off the dreaded mag bag and could stand up again, she recalls.but, age be damned, she says she bounced back from her c-section within and perhaps even ahead of the expected recovery time. despite my age, i recovered easily from the c-section, she says. i was up and about with almost no pain in about 4 days.preparing for a baby after 40if you plan on pregnancy over 40, minkin recommends egg freezing (though theres no guarantee those eggs will result in a healthy delivery) and staying as healthy as you can. smoking accelerates menopause and decreases fertility by about 2 years and keep as close to your ideal body weight as possible, she says.shainker agrees about the importance of entering into an advanced age pregnancy in the best health possible. if youre considering pregnancy over 40, shainker recommends the following prior to conception:an ekg and echocardiogram to check cardiac functionmanaging chronic medical conditions, such as hypertension and diabetes, to get in the best shape possiblereviewing the safety data of any medication you might be on  many are not safe to take during pregnancytalking to your doctor about taking baby aspirin to reduce the risk of pre-eclampsia and utero-placental insufficiencyafter all, women of any age need their strength to care for a newborn. ask me about age and those early months (after delivery) and id have to say i sure wished at the time that i had more energy, says collins. sleep deprivation, mommy fog, leaking bladder, all of that seemed to me to be worse than it might have been had my body been more youthful and resilient.more stories on navigating motherhoodhow being a boss makes me a better mom3 things moms dont need to worry about when going back to workwhat its like to give up alcohol in a wine mom worldamerica has a motherhood problem  heres how to solve itwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when you walk into rebel fitness club, a new boxing-oriented gym outside of detroit, michigan, youre greeted by a sign declaring the spaces zero-tolerance policy for harassment, violence and abuse. continue down the halls and youll find bold phrases on the walls like rebel against hate and rebel against bullying.\" take a group class or a one-on-training and youll notice that aside from a corrective tap on the shoulder or elbow (and a high-five to close), trainers do not touch you at all. the rooms where classes are held are so dimly lit you cant get a good look at yourself, let alone at your classmates and theres only one mirror in the front of the room.this is what goes into making a gym a safe, comfortable space for all members, but especially for women, says owner michelle landry who has experienced harassment firsthand in other gyms.women often alter their workout regimen to end harassmentworking out in gyms became super uncomfortable for me, landry tells nbc news better, adding that she opened rebel with the intention of appealing to others who may be in the same boat. there were always creepy men leering no matter what. i started to wear this get away from me expression just to avoid it, but thats not a real solution. women shouldnt have to change their behaviors to prevent unwanted interactions.and yet, as a new survey by exercisebike.net found, many women are doing just that: changing their behaviors to deal with sexual harassment in the gym. consulting 1,000 adults (roughly split between men and women), the survey found that 18.5 percent of women had a negative experience at the gym, most of whom altered their workout regimen in response: 72 percent of women wore different clothes to work out after being sexually harassed at the gym; 48 percent stopped doing certain exercises, 37 percent switched gyms or stopped going altogether and 79 percent said theyd consider an all-womens gym to prevent sexual harassment.i think these percentages are shocking, says meg piedmont, a senior account manager at fractl, who helped oversee the survey. and theyre also emotionally impactful, especially with the current climate we have [amid #metoo and #timesup]. its just shocking to see that this is happening so much in the gym.men are targeted too, but victims are predominantly womenthe survey found that men are also victims of sexual harassment in the gym, though the number (still startling) is smaller: 7.3 percent of men said they had been sexually harassed in the gym. they too fight back, however unfairly, by changing their ways but are, based on this survey at least, less inclined to do so than women. twenty-five percent of men who had been sexually harassed wore different clothing after, 31 percent have stopped doing certain exercises, 17 percent have switched gyms or stopped going altogether and 31 percent said they would consider joining an all-mens gym.men may be sexually harassed less than women in gyms (a micro-reflection of society at large, perhaps), but theres a clear crossing of boundaries regardless of ones gender, and most of the time (93 percent) the offense is committed by a fellow gym member and most victims (98 percent of women victims and 95 percent of men) cited touching or groping as the offense, followed by being rubbed up against (92 percent of women and 85 percent of men). additionally, both men and women are wary to report incidents: 44 percent of women did nothing following harassment as did 67 percent of men.bullying, shaming and splainingthis survey focuses on sexual harassment, but gyms also seem to be cesspools for all kinds of harassment, including body shaming.ive been a gym regular for about 7 years, says machell duma, an author, editor and branding consultant in her early forties. i spent most of my life ill with [polycystic ovary syndrome], a disease that doesnt give you much control over your weight or body. after my hysterectomy, i began exercising with positive results. my body had never been thin, always at best thick but i am very fit. my first gym in seattle had a womens only section [where] two women stood behind me and talked about how theyd die if they were my size (18, then) because they thought i couldnt hear them through my headphones.duma says she also receives troves of unsolicited comments from fellow gym members about when or how she should work out. she also hears youre brave a lot  just for exercising, she adds.lauren saccone, a freelance writer and social media specialist in her early thirties has also had her overwhelming share of despicable experiences at the gym, especially when shes lifting weights.ive had men take my headphones off while im working to tell me i must be in the wrong area, saccone says. ive been challenged on my abilities while lifting, and ive had men make disparaging comments about my inappropriate attire (a tank top and sweat pants). my favorite was when a guy came up to me and said, i have something heavy you can lift. i know this was a euphemism, but i hope i never find out what he meant.dont use the gym for flirting. just dont.why do gyms act as virtual cesspools for lewd and unwanted behavior? why in particular do men somehow think they can get away with or even be appreciated for sexually charged gestures or remarks? the list of reasons could go on and may include, as jessica higgins an avid fitness fan and the author of the forthcoming book the 12 essential business communication skills, the warped idea that gyms are a good place to mingle and meet potential dates.im not exactly sure why so many mens magazines reported that the gym is a great place to meet women, but coming from my female workout friends: we dissent, says higgins. if you run into us before or after a workout, thats totally fine. but detracting someone elses focus from their fitness is depriving them of their time and energy. give us space.same goes for those eyeing men they may be interested in. save it for the bar.policies and penalties are needed to create safer spacesrebel fitness is setting a great example in fostering a healthy space, but it should be noted that this isnt your ordinary gym. aside from the personal training section, it doesnt tout any self-serve workout areas, so to speak, and primarily focuses on classes.but every gym can take cue in setting the stage for a harassment-free zone, even if this means revising contracts to include strict regulations.i think theres resistance from gyms around making the environment more formal and corporate, but this has to happen, says mark kluger, employment lawyer at kluger healey.what exactly could this look like? not only should gyms make it clear in employee and members contracts that theyre agreeing to a zero-tolerance policy (at the risk of being reported and banned), they may also want to give members questionnaires to fill out indicating what style of training they want from personal training staff.investment advisors ask you your level of risk tolerance when you sign up with them. gyms could perhaps ask, whats your level of training tolerance? are you okay with a drill sergeant approach from a trainer where they may say [demeaning] things to motivate you or do you want a more gentle attitude? says kluger. trainers need to be aware of both verbal harassment and touching; in either case the client must give consent. its the members right to say, if i need to tuck my stomach in tell me, dont touch my stomach and that needs to be respected.kluger adds that this stuff really isnt very complicated.we know what is okay and what is not, he says. a lot of people may not come forward about harassment because they dont know where to go or who to talk to. those resources need to be clear, and people need to know that their gyms are ensuring their safety in an environment where they may be feeling at their most vulnerable.next: #changedbymetoo: how the metoo movement has changed the way we workwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

cockroach milk is back in the spotlight after a study from two years ago recently resurfaced on the internet. and, once again, its being hailed as the latest potential \"superfood.\"why? the news reports are rehashing the findings from the international union of crystallographys 2016 scientific study on cockroach milk. the study analyzed the pacific beetle cockroach and found that the insects milk is loaded with protein, amino acids and has three times more energy than cows milk.nathan coussens, senior research scientist for the national center for advancing translational sciences who was involved in the study describes cockroach milk as having \"all the essential amino acids\" and that \"its decorated with carbs and it binds essential lipids so its a complete nutrient all in one package.\"it certainly sounds scientifically promising, albeit not particularly palatable. but it led me to one question ...how do you milk cockroaches again?since cockroaches dont have mammary glands, milking a cockroach isnt what you would imagine  the term \"milking\" actually means extracting the nutritious fluid thats used to feed the insects embryos in the brood sac. and harvesting the milk is a laborious process  one that uses approximately 20,000 cockroaches to fill up the equivalent of one glass of milk, the researchers said.besides being time-consuming, barbara stay, a professor emerita at the university of iowa who has studied the biology of cockroaches since the late 1950s, said its not the type of milk youd want to put in your coffee either it doesnt have a creamy consistency like cows milk, so it probably wouldnt taste very good if you are looking for a protein-packed substitute for half and half. even she wouldnt drink it: \"oh heavens no! im happy with cows milk,\" stay exclaimed.the jurys still (pretty far) out on its potentialdespite the internet buzz saying cockroach milk is the next big thing, stay explained that its just not economical to bring it to a mass market right now, but said it may be one day. and coussens agreed: \"i think it has a lot of potential, actually. this is a very interesting and unique protein that we are talking about.\" because of the unique nutritional properties, cockroach milk may have advantages as a protein source to provide famine-stricken populations with energy-dense food  but it would require further study to see if its even fit for human consumption.for now, well have to settle for cows milk or any other of the nondairy \"milks\" out there on the market. and thats just fine with me.

for freelance writer brooke blanton, holding hands with her boyfriend doesnt just bring them closer together, its also healing.one night, a crippling migraine left blanton in severe pain. not knowing what else to do, the as one loves founder curled up next to her boyfriend in bed.she describes the pain as an icepick in your head.all you want to do is sleep, but thats the last thing you can do, blanton told nbc news better.i was feeling terrible and i just could not sleep, she says, and all i needed to do was lie down next to him, and he held my hand, and i was out in a couple of minutes.how physical touch heals painblanton says holding her partners hand created a phenomenon called interpersonal synchronization. according to a 2017 study published in scientific reports, when an emphatic partner holds your hand while you experience stress, your breathing and heart rate sync together, which can alleviate your anxiety.blanton says it was incredible how simply holding hands with someone she loved soothed her pain.just that tiny little connection can completely affect your mind and your well being, says blanton.physical touch doesnt come naturally to everyonemany people need and crave physical touch to alleviate not only physical discomfort but also emotional pain. but it doesnt come natural to everyone, says blanton, including her boyfriend.but whats so great about him is hes so empathetic, she says. he will completely validate what im experiencing, and hes learned over the years that physical touch is a major thing for me.she says her boyfriends natural way of expressing love is by doing nice things for others, like cleaning up or buying gifts.hes really not as touchy and feely as me, but i know that he knows that it works for me because hes always holding my hand and everything even though he might not really want to, she says.she says its important for her to understand how he likes to feel loved, as well. on some days, that could mean cleaning the kitchen, she says, or simply asking him how his day was.i would feel bad if it was all about me and my boyfriend always has to be holding my hand and i never gave him what he needed, blanton says. so, i learned over the years what he needs when hes upset and what makes him feel loved and what makes him feel appreciated.while its been a process, she says, he has learned to know when she needs affection, too.he immediately goes to hold my hand or rub my back or something, and just that physical touch, i dont know, it creates this connection and immediately calms me down no matter what im feeling at the time, blanton says.tell your partner when you need to be heldfor the less touchy partner, knowing when to be affectionate can be a learning process, according to blanton. you shouldnt be shy about asking for affection, she says. oftentimes, she says, she will simply ask her boyfriend to cuddle with her.my boyfriend  he wouldnt know how to deal with this so i have to be open with him in telling him what i need and he has to be open with me in listening to what i need, and in turn telling me what he needs in life, blanton says.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

avocados quickly went from occasional treat at your local mexican joint to a prized grocery store staple in a matter of a decade. today, a quick look on instagram and pinterest reveals hundreds of thousands of ways to eat this green-fleshed treat. aside from the fact that theyre rich and creamy and just plain delicious, there are some great reasons avocados belong on your menu. here are some of avocados top health benefits, plus some surprising new (and healthy) ways to eat them.the health benefits of avocados1. better vitamin and mineral intake. with 20 vitamins and minerals, avocados are undoubtedly nutritious. and people who eat them have more nutritious diets that include more fruits and veggies overall, plus more fiber, vitamins e and k, magnesium, potassium, and healthy monounsaturated fat (mufas), according to one study. avocado eaters also had lower intakes of added sugar. though its technically considered a fruit (yes, a fruit!), because avocados provide mufas and due to how theyre used in recipes and meals, i (along with many nutrition experts) describe avocados as a plant-based fat.2. hunger helper. research on overweight adults found that those who ate an avocado-free lunch versus those who included about a half an avocado, avocado eaters reported more meal satisfaction and a lower desire to eat over the next five hours. anything that helps with hunger and tastes this good is a winner in my book.3. weight management. lets clear this up once and for all. quality, plant-based fats are good for you, even if youre trying to lose weight. in one study on the topic, people who reported eating avocados were found to have lower bmi and body weight, and slimmer waistlines compared to non-eaters. another study on the mediterranean diet, which is high in mufas, found that even when eating an unrestricted diet (read: no calorie limits) high in mufas, participants lost weight and inches on their waist over a five-year period.4. powerful disease protection. improvements in diet quality, reduction in added sugar intake, and better weight management are all ways to boost health in their own right. on top of that, it has been shown that avocado eaters have higher levels of hdl cholesterol (the healthy type) while separate research found that eating avocados was linked with lower levels of unhealthy ldl cholesterol, both of which benefit your heart.research on the mediterranean diet suggests that it may improve memory and other cognitive measures, and lower dementia rates. other research links this dietary pattern with lower rates of depression, hearing loss, certain cancers, and type 2 diabetes. eating mufa-rich avocados, along with other plant-based oils (including olives and olive oil), whole grains, nuts, seeds, fruits, and veggies while reducing meat and processed foods may offer similar benefits.11 healthy, nutritionist-approved avocado recipesyou already know theyre delicious  and even decadent-tasting  mashed on toast, but here are some other ways to enjoy avocados. ive selected a mix of sweet and savory recipes since avocados pair just as well with both. but dont take my word for it. try one of these avocado-based dishes and desserts and youll be a believer.chocolate avocado puddingchocolatey dessert lovers, i stand with you. which brings me to this epic, rich, chocolatey pudding. it has a touch of espresso powder, which brings out the deep, chocolate flavor, and unlike other avocado puddings, is sweetened with real fruit  not added sugar (whether in the form of honey, agave, maple syrup or another sweetener).simple carne asada with avocado chimichurrihere, grilled flank steak (a lean cut of beef) is topped with chimichurri sauce. though traditional chimichurri doesnt call for avocado, why split hairs when youre adding so much deliciousness and an extra dose of goodness? registered dietitian, kaliegh mcmordie, rdn suggests you enjoy her recipe with a side of grilled sweet potatoes and a salad  great serving suggestions for rounding out your meal with veggies.edamame avocado hummusprotein-rich edamame is whirled with avocado and flavorful seasonings to bring you this bright dip. like other bean-based foods, this dip gets extra credit: because beans are rich in nutrients, they count toward your veggie-quota as well as your protein requirements. score extra points by using vegetable dunkers, like red pepper strips or carrot coins. whole grain chips and crackers are healthy alternatives.chocolate banana avocado smoothie bowlthis legitimately looks like dessert but it keeps things on the up-and-up for breakfast since it has no added sugar. the toppings are optional, but id encourage you to go light on the fruit or skip it entirely. the smoothie has plenty. instead, you might consider a little lower-sugar granola or nuts for added crunch.watermelon avocado tomato stackive had similar salads with burrata or feta cheese, but this dairy-free version gets its creaminess from avocados. even if you love dairy, i bet youll appreciate this twist.healthy avocado black bean browniesyou had me at brownies. avocados and black beans are the two sneaky ingredients that put the healthy in these treats. they also happen to be dairy free and gluten free, and the recipe offers an egg free option.egg prosciutto stuffed avocado boatsavo toast, meet your match. these beauties will impress brunch guests but are also low-enough-effort for solo dining. the super simple recipe is naturally gluten free, paleo and low-carb so its suitable for many lifestyles.creamy avocado pasta with cherry tomatoes and zucchiniif the words creamy and pasta arent enough to convert you, i offer this: dinner in 20! plus, this pasta dish is free from gluten, dairy, eggs, nuts and grains. this version is made with edamame pasta, but to make it soy free, you could swap whole grain gluten free spaghetti (to keep it gluten free) or another bean-based variety. if you dont need to follow a special diet, ordinary whole wheat pasta would also be a healthy choice.mint chocolate chip popsiclesto satisfy a craving for mint chocolate chip ice cream in a healthier way, all you need are popsicle molds, medjool dates, avocado, mint leaves, and mint chocolate chips. for under 150 calories, youll have a luxurious and creamy treat. and since the recipe makes suggestions for dairy-free substitutions, you can get all this creaminess from purely plant-based sources.baked avocado friesyou might want to get a thank you note ready to fire off to the geniuses behind this simple side, snack or appetizer. the fries are both gluten free and vegan, and like many vegan dishes get lots of flavor from nutritional yeast. its a staple in vegan and dairy-free cooking since the savory flakes make a great swap for parmesan cheese, among other things. if you pick up a package of nutritional yeast and are wondering what else to do with it, its delicious over roasted brussels sprouts and makes a tasty popcorn topper.no churn dark chocolate avocado frozen yogurtwhat if i told you that you probably have all of the ingredients and appliances you need to whip up this decadent dessert right now? this isnt fake news  its true! another truth: it only tastes and looks decadent. the nonfat greek yogurt and avocado base pack in a lot of nutrition  a total bonus when it comes to dessert. if, like me, you dont have an ice cream maker at home, dont worry; there are directions for making it without one. the only downside to this dessert is that you have to wait for it to freeze in order to fully enjoy it.more tips and tricks from a nutritionisthow to build a better smoothiehealthy trader joes products nutritionists swear bywhats the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?seriously filling salads youll want to eat all summerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

weve all been there: your previous job didnt work out, and now youre on the treadmill: job boards, networking events, and stalking linkedin. while you may already know how to update your resume and start putting out feelers, what are the best action steps beyond that? here are seven to-dos that can make you more marketable and get you back to work, stat!1. perfect your own prevery job seeker needs to be ready with their why, says mark anthony dyson, career coach, and founder of voice of job seekers. why do you want the job? why did you enter this field? why should we hire you? in other words, you need to be able to tell your story in a compelling way, and in the process reveal something about your passions and the motivations that have moved your career to date. if youre uncomfortable owning your own story, youll find it hard to be competitive no matter how many jobs are available, dyson says. we know most employers are looking to disqualify before they qualify, and this is really going to set you apart from the competition.2. deepen a small network of trusted and valuable peoplewhile traditional networking advice focuses on meeting as many people as you can, its the people with whom we have the deepest connections who often turn us on to our next career opportunity, dyson says. while these individuals might not be close friends, theyre people you know well enough to ask for a meeting. you should look to keep up with 10-15 people through personal messages, phone calls, and lunch dates, dyson says. these are connections who might be able to provide you with intel you normally wouldnt see in updates online. this smaller circle will be glad to connect you more directly to meaningful opportunities.3. use that network to stay fresh on your industrynetworking plays a powerful role in your search not because of who youre meeting but because of what youre learning about your industry, explains penny locey, vice president of employment agency keystone associates. if youve been at one company or in one role for a long period of time, you may have lost touch with industry news or terminology, and you may sound out of date. for instance, in the human resources world, what used to be called staffing or recruiting is now referred to as talent acquisition, locey says, and thats exactly the kind of thing youd need to know if you were seeking a position in the hr field. when youre up on the new terms and goings on, it shows youre connected to your industry and that youre curious.4. get a new certification or learn a new skillif youre concerned that your skills may have become obsolete, or if there is a certification in your field thats desirable, now is a great time to add it to your repertoire, locey says. between free courseware and online colleges, you can often find inexpensive ways to gain the skills. showing the course or certification on your resume and linkedin profile can help get you a screening interview because it may allow electronic screening tools to find you, she explains. and while these trainings wont always replace on-the-job experience, taking courses can show ambition, and some certifications can even help place people into new positions they might not have considered previously.5. help a friend with their side gigwhether its managing social media for a friends bar or helping your brother plan networking events for his nonprofit, working (or even volunteering) for someone you know can be a great way to add value to your resume while youre looking for a full-time position, explains vicki salemi, career expert for job board monster.com. this not only helps you stay active, but it may provide you with a few more skills to add to your repertoire. especially when a hiring manager asks what youve been doing since your last job, then you wont need to concoct an answer thats an alternative to binging on netflix.6. go for an interview  even if no job is availablenot sure where to start with this one? just call or email the hr department of the company youre interested in working for and ask if theyd be willing to have you in for an interview, says paul solomon, ceo of executive placement firm solo management. you may need to explain that while you understand that there arent any positions available right now, youre interested in learning more about the company and you want to be top of mind should any openings arise. also explain what you think you could bring to the company in terms of value, solomon says. theres no better way to introduce yourself to someone than to be in front of them and tell them about your experience, work ethic and value first hand.7. volunteer  at a company where you might want to workvolunteer opportunities can be found online or through people you know, but finding one via your network may be the best course of action, as most companies have needs that arent public, says matt burns, us head of customer support for team management software platform monday. even the act of inquiring about volunteer opportunities can reflect favorably on you. you can show hiring managers that youre proactive and dont wait for ideal scenarios to present themselves.plus, when you volunteer at a company where you might want to work, youre not just gaining experience, youre discovering whether or not you share a companys core values, dyson explains. applying through job boards rarely provides insight into a companys belief system, but when you volunteer, you can explore their values firsthand. if you go this route, be careful that you arent taken advantage of  remember that you can volunteer for as little as 3-5 hours per week, and you can specify up front if you expect something in return. you can trade for a reference or a linkedin recommendation, making it worthwhile for both parties, dyson says.with kathryn tugglemore job search tipshow to write a cover letter people will want to read4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your career4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boostwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

i was raised with the understanding that dogs are family. my fianc and i are strongly sticking to this thinking and regard our two dogs as the most important creatures on the planet. were always thinking of ways to maximize their happiness. our senior girl, netta, has bad arthritis and a less than affectionate attitude toward strange dogs. shes most content just cuddling in bed; but our new rescue, two-year-old josepher is outgoing, sociable and eager to learn new tricks.a few months into a splendid life with josepher, weve been contemplating getting him trained to be a therapy dog. it would be a meaningful experience for me (as his potential handler) having spent much of my childhood in the hospital with my twin brother. i dont have memories of a therapy dog being around us back then, but i can imagine how happy such a visit would have made us. id like to visit a childrens hospital with josepher and maybe bring just a little bit of cheer to an environment i remember as being so stressful and dreary. but how do i know my dog is right for the job and would he actually be happy providing such a service?new study looks at dogs stress levels, finds them to be stablea new study published in applied animal behaviour science helps to answer that last question. the research, which considered the work of 26 therapy dogs in pediatric cancer wards, found that the dogs werent the least bit stressed by the work and even expressed joy in doing it.with this study, we wanted to find out how the dogs find this work, says dr. amy mccullough, national director, rescue &amp; military affairs at american humane and co-author of the research. it was important to us to know that dogs are not distressed from these activities.the studys researchers measured levels of the dogs cortisol (a hormone that becomes elevated when stressed) by taking swabs of their saliva at various times both on and off therapy duty to establish the dogs baseline. wed then swab about 20 minutes after end of session, and compare that to their baseline to see how it compared.the researchers found that the dogs cortisol levels were stable, meaning they werent stressed.the dogs behavior is also telling: tail wags and no signs of aversionto deal with the question as to whether the dog was not only not stressed but also happy doing therapy work, the researchers videotaped the sessions of the dog interacting with the children. we coded them for behaviors the dog was exhibiting, [identifying] stress-related and affiliative or friendly behaviors. wed check off every time we saw behaviors like tail wagging, lip-licking [a sign of anxiousness], looking toward the child or turning away. we observed that behavior for the 15 to 20 minute sessions to get a context of the interaction. the research team also had the dogs handler fill out report to inform what they did, and who else aside from the child was present.the results here were great news, says mccullough. we did not see any adverse behaviors. the dogs were very engaged with what they were doing. ultimately, this is a win-win-win. the handler enjoys showing the dog off and volunteering, the [patient] enjoys the dog and the dog likes doing it.a busy dog is a happy dogthe studys findings come as no surprise to dr. gary richter, veterinary health expert with rover.therapy dogs are happy because they are doing something they love to do, he says. they get to interact with people and perform tasks they were trained for. just like people, some dogs really like having purpose in their day. while they may not think about it in quite the same terms as us, dogs like to have a job to do.any dog can be suitable, but not all dogs are meant for itdogs of all types can be fit for service, but certain traits play a role in their success at the tasks at hand.some dogs need to be physically strong to assist disabled people. other dogs need to be very in tune to their owners and have an excellent sense of smell in order to detect seizures, blood sugar issues, etc. dr. richter says. guide dogs need to be very intelligent and be able to make certain decisions on their owners behalf. thus, the right dog depends on breed, personality, trainability and the job the dog is being asked to do.a people-loving personality is paramountone characteristic is non-negotiable, and thats the dogs demeanor.you want a dog that absolutely loves people, heather gillihan, owner and head trainer at zoom room in trophy club, texas, tells nbc news better. it doesnt really matter if they dont totally love other dogs (within reason), but you want a dog that just really wants to be with people. you can work with that and teach some of it, but it does come down in part to nature.gillihan notes an overly nervous or anxious dog is not a best fit, adding that one of her four dogs is not a therapy dog because shes easily startled. its the hardest thing when youre dog isnt a fit because you want to give back. but you have to look out for your dog. if theyre not a right fit, then theyll be stressed out and dangerous situations could arise.how to get startedyour dog will definitely need to go through a certified training program to work with the general public. you can get started by signing up with a local training facility, like zoom room, which may recommend a series of basic obedience trainings before getting started with a therapy training program.for people who have friendly, sociable dogs, it is fairly easy to train them to go to hospitals and visit with people, says dr. richter. usually there are guidelines and requirements in order for facilities to allow dogs to come. people should investigate what they need to do in their area. for more complex tasks like physical therapy assisting, hearing/visually-impaired assistance, or seizure/blood sugar monitoring, the best advice is to work with an organization with experience in training these dogs such as guide dogs for the blind and canine companions for independence (cci).and remember, if your dog isnt a fit, you can always make a donation or look into fostering a therapy dog.the need for therapy dogs is growinggillihan has seen a tremendous spike in the need for therapy dogs, particularly with the surge of gun violence and natural disasters  both situations where survivors are greatly in need of comfort.i get requests constantly for my area and cant meet the demand, she says. recently a police officer was shot and killed in dallas and two others were in critical condition. at first i was surprised that our dogs were needed there, but seven of us visited the precinct and it was such a release for these officers to just hold a dog and cry.another area where gillihan is seeing increased interest is at airports.when people get stuck and are frustrated, sending in a therapy dog can really diffuse the tension, she says. our [local] airport is constantly asking for therapy dogs to be there just in case. and why not? dogs can make us feel better.more on how our pets make our lives betterforget what youve heard. being a cat lady is healthy.how dogs teach us to stop worrying and just be happywhy dogs are good for our health and help us cope with lifeits not just a hunch. some of us love our dogs more than other humans.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

when it comes to making a budget, most of us know there are two basic categories of spending: the things we have to pay for, and the things we dont.its very easy to tell which things are non-negotiable: our mortgage or rent, utilities, medical costs, transportation, food. for parents, childcare would also qualify. they are all expenses that fall into the bottom levels of maslows hierarchy of needs  when theyre taken care of, we dont feel their effects. but when they are missing or lacking, we can feel intense anxiety.we all need to meet our basic needs before we can accomplish our greater financial goals. for example, you probably cant expect to save for a house down payment if you are barely able to cover your monthly food costs. saving for retirement is also much easier once youre no longer buried under a mountain of student debt.shelter, food, paying off debt  those are necessities. but sometimes, thinking in terms of necessities can get us into serious financial trouble.for example, we cant go without housing. most personal finance experts will agree that its typically affordable to spend up to 30% of ones annual income (before taxes) on housing. yet most americans are spending 37% of their incomes on housing costs, according to the u.s. department of labor. if your household income is $100,000, that seven percent increase could account for $7,000 in lost potential savings each year.i know how easy it is to get lured into the higher-cost housing trap. my partner and i recently moved from midtown manhattan, where hed chosen to live out of convenience four years ago, to a less convenient (but thankfully much quieter) part of town. we didnt even have to downsize; just by moving to a different neighborhood, were spending nearly $1,000 less per month than we were previously.theres no denying that housing is a necessity. but more expensive housing, whether for the sake of a better location or more space, is a luxury, and i think thats something a lot of us take for granted. we may think our baseline expenses are necessities, but getting comfortable with higher standards of living often means paying more than we really need to  and perhaps even overspending.of course, thinking of things as necessities doesnt just apply to big-ticket budget categories like rent. its extremely common to think we need personal care or clothing items that we actually dont.thats something desirae odjick, the brains behind the popular personal finance blog half banked, has experienced a lot first-hand.i think this happens so much, especially with the way social media shows us perfectly-polished images of what everyone else has, she told me. ive definitely been lured into buying clothing and decor that i felt like i needed to have because i kept seeing it on instagram! (but seriously, who hasnt?).she went on to explain that social media isnt the only culprit for overspending on material items we think we need. our in-person environments can create the exact same effect. if everyone else in your friend group is buying something, or spending money on an experience, it very quickly feels like you need to spend money on it, too. the same goes for the workplace  its so easy to normalize take-out lunches, expensive clothing or networking events as essentials because everyone else is buying them, but even when they feel like necessities, they really arent.in order to wiggle your way out from under excessively spending on what you think are necessities, here are a few questions to ask yourself before making a purchase  big or small.1. do i want this or need this?odjicks point about takeout lunches is a good one: yes, we need to eat. but do we need to spend $15 on a salad every day? probably not.of course, if youre a high earner or good about limiting your spending in other areas, daily lunches might not break the bank for you. but for so many of us, seemingly small expenses like takeout lunches and daily lattes can really add up, without us even realizing it.next time you go to buy something, ask yourself this question  and be honest. if what youre spending on is simply a want, and not a need, you may want to rethink the money youre about to drop on it.2. can i spend less to achieve the same level of satisfaction?of course, a life without any discretionary spending isnt a palatable one for most of us. in fact, odjick encourages everyone to spend money on things they like.you might opt to keep some of the extras, which is totally fair, but getting clear on what counts as a necessity can help you really enjoy your discretionary purchases more. you dont need a latte, but that doesnt mean you cant enjoy one  and if you know its a treat, as opposed to what you buy without thinking about it because you need it, youll probably enjoy it more.being honest with yourself about what you do and dont actually need makes you appreciate the non-necessities more  which makes them even more enjoyable. but heres where you ask yourself the next question: if i know this isnt a need, is it still worth it to me, or just a default?for some of us, those afternoon lattes are the highlight of our day. its worth it to put money towards things that bring us genuine joy. but for others for whom that latte is merely a habit, and nothing more, it may be time to rethink that default spending. getting used to buying things regularly that you dont actually need, and especially that you dont even want that much, will surely lead to overspending  and fast.how can cutting back on necessities make room for more wants?maybe you really love those daily lattes, but youve realized that, on your salary, you really cant afford to keep having them if you want to reach your bigger financial goals. you of course cant starve yourself or go without transportation in order to save money, but as much as it hurts, fancy coffee can go.but fortunately, theres probably somewhere else in your budget where you can find that $4 a weekday youd like to spend on a latte. you just have to get creative with what you spend on necessities.for example, we may know how important it is to cook at home in order to save on food costs  but we may not be optimizing our grocery budgets in order to do so. for example, sarah, the who blogs at smile &amp; conquer, sticks to a strict meal plan every week so as not to overspend on food. that way, she knows what shes spending beforehand, and make sure shes making the most of her shopping list by using several recipes with overlapping ingredients.if you start paying better attention to your spending in one area, like groceries, you can figure out how to get your daily latte without jeopardizing your finances. $20 a week saved at the supermarket means $20 more you can put towards your coffee habit.more savings hacksthe one move you can make to improve your wealth and healthhow a do-not-buy list can save you hundreds of dollars13 easy ways to save moneyhow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

for many, stress is an accepted part of daily life, whether its triggered by a mile-long to-do list at work, a schedule packed full of family commitments or the stream of never-ending bills in your mailbox (or, likely, a combination of all three).research suggests that over the past decade there has been a sharp rise in mental-health related issues, like stress and anxiety. a survey conducted by the american psychological association found that 31 percent of respondents saw an increase in their stress levels in 2016 and 2017, with 20 percent reporting experiencing extreme stress.poppy jamie, entrepreneur, tv personality and creator of the mindfulness app happy, not perfect, is no stranger to the severe health effects of a high-stress lifestyle.[thinking about stress] started for me at a young age, because my mother is a psychotherapist and my father is an entrepreneur who suffered from severe stress and anxiety, says jamie. as she entered the workforce, jamie began to struggle with stress-related health issues of her own. i was a tv host for seven years and i started my own business and i was trying to do so much, i was very much my fathers daughter feeling stressed and anxious, she says.having grown up with a live-in psychotherapist she knew what needed to be done. yet, she quickly ran into a problem. the tools she was searching for didnt exist in the marketplace. the current apps werent working, she said: theyd say: sit here and think of nothing  im thinking of everything!the most successful people, even back to the ancient greeks, understand that you need to look after your mind and create mindful rituals to help you feel better, make better decisions, feel balanced and manage stress when youre under pressure, says jamie. so she took matters into her own hands and began to develop an app filled with tools she knew she (and millions of other people) needed to take a breather, de-stress and find a happier, more centered mental space.and happy, not perfect was born. created with ucla neuroscientists, she says the app combines scientifically-proven methods from positive neuroscience, plus mindfulness rituals and practices and modern gamification, to activate different parts of the brain and promote the release of serotonin and dopamine.why we should think of our brains as a muscle that needs trainingwe understand what its like to go to the gym a few times a week and look after our physical bodies, but we need to start looking after our minds  theyve never been under this much strain, where the world is quicker than ever.\"just like our body, our mind needs regular exercise and daily attention, says jamie. \"to be able to manage your mind is a skill like any other skill and weve forgotten that. why wait until you feel terrible to do it?the goal of exercising your mind is not to find happiness, which jamie describes as a transient emotion. \"all of our emotions are transient. theres no such thing as a bad emotion,\" she says. \"when we dont feel happy we panic, but its about accepting that we are always in different stages but knowing that it will pass. happiness is not perfect; it doesnt exist when you get that job or the house or the car  were always putting happiness off because were always in this rat race to get there.by taking a time out each day to perform some brain training exercises, jamies hope is that the simple process will help you accept when thing arent perfect and give you a different metric for success (one that supports happiness rather than perfection, which will ultimately make you happier in the long run).were always in ebbs and flows, that is really important. sometimes when were not feeling good, we panic and we make things worse, says jamie. [this process is] about accepting: i dont have that much energy today, or yes, this week hasnt been great, but maybe next week will be better. we all mess up, and thats okay.7-steps to a clearer mind\"by accepting how you feel, studies show that you start reducing the emotional impact, says jamie. and this seven-step process is designed to walk you through this journey of checking in with yourself, processing the emotions and letting them go.ready to give it a try? follow these seven simple steps to help train your mind to release worries, get a fresh perspective and feel happier in just a few minutes a day.step 1: internal check inhow are you feeling: insecure? excited? rejected? meh? happy? stressed? anxious? heartbroken? angry? sad? the first step to a clearer mind is to recognize the emotion that youre feeling. research shows that when you label the emotion youre feeling it allows emotional processing to start taking place helping you to feel better. remember, there is no such thing as a bad emotion, theyre all temporary.step 2: breatheslow, smooth breathing is the quickest and easiest way to calm your stress response and activate your rest and relax system in just a few seconds. use the \"belly breath\" technique in a five-count breathing pattern. relax your shoulders. inhale slowly for 5 counts, exhale slowly for 5 counts. remember to belly breathe, letting your stomach expand and shrink back down with each breath. imagine a paper bag slowly filling with air, and then deflating. focus on breathing this way for at least 30 seconds.step 3: write and let gothis is your moment to unclutter your mind and release any thoughts or feelings youre experiencing. whatever your emotion is, write down why you feel this way: whats been going on? what are you stressed about? what happened to make you angry? write down the first thing that comes to mind. journaling activates the computer side of your brain which helps calm the emotional center further helping you gain more clarity. have it written down? now rip that paper up. release the emotion.step 4: reframe with gratitudethis is when you redirect: what do you have? what can you be grateful for? says jamie. get your happy hormones flowing by writing a gratitude list. this part of the routine is about focusing on the positive as its easy to forget the good things in our lives (especially when were stressed or anxious). write down something or someone that makes your life better. what are you grateful for today?step 5: playnow its time for a quick mindful mini game that helps you get your zen on. from art therapy to quick focus challenges, there are many activities that can disrupt thinking and bring you back feeling more balanced. draw your favorite memory, your happy place or a smiling face. play a game like a crossword puzzle or a round of candy crunch on your phone. listen to your favorite song and hum along to it.step 6: compassion challengeshift your perspective through compassion exercises that trigger a release of dopamine and a boost to self esteem. choose one of the following written challenges:we challenge you to forgive someone today  you dont need that extra baggage.what would you tell a friend if they were feeling like you do now?we challenge you to let someone know that you appreciate them.self-love time: give yourself a compliment.step 7: good vibeswhat can you do for someone else? in a generation thats been indoctrinated with selfies and narcissism, if youre thinking about someone else you cant be worried about your own problems, says jamie. studies have also found that those who think of others the most were happier. this is your moment to make someones day with a thinking of you moment. no matter how we feel, we always have the power to make someone else feel better, says jamie. make someone else feel better by sending them a text or email with a positive note.more stress busting tipshow to manage stress so that it doesnt hurt your healthwhat is sophrology, the latest stress-busting mindfulness trend?stressed? heres how to tap into a zen feeling (almost) instantlyhow to bounce back from headline stress disorderwhy the simple act of being in nature helps you de-stresswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

some folks are able to watch the latest racist incident or school shooting unfold on the news late at night, roll over and go right to sleep. yet, plenty of others cant watch the news past dinnertime, for the pain and agony they witness seeps too deeply into their skin and all hope for sleep is lost.the cause for taking the suffering of others so personally? the blessing and curse of empathy.according to dictionary.com, empathy is described as the psychological identification with or vicarious experiencing of the feelings, thoughts or attitudes of another. roman krznaric, author of \"empathy: why it matters and how to get it,\" describes the difference between empathy and sympathy: sympathy is feeling pity or sorry for someone, but without that extra step of grasping what that person is going through, or how they are experiencing the world, he says.being an empath versus being empathetictheres also a difference between feeling empathy for others and being an actual empath. judith orloff, md, author of \"the empaths survival guide: life strategies for sensitive people,\" identifies as an empath and describes them as emotional sponges who are so sensitive, they tend to take on the stress of the world.the gift of feeling empathy, or being an empath, is that you care deeply for others and want to help, says orloff. however, the downside of empathy is it can be mighty exhausting. empaths have an extremely sensitive, hyperreactive neurological system, she explains. we dont have the same filters that other people do to block out stimulation. as a consequence, we absorb into our own bodies both the positive and stressful energies around us.is empathy a skill or an ability youre born with?orloff says the ability to feel empathy is a little bit psychological tendency and a little bit neurological wiring. its hypothesized that empaths may have hyperactive mirror neuron systems (the compassion neurons in the brain) and they work on overdrive feeling compassion, she says.according to krznaric, your capacity for empathy is likely a question of nature and nurture. research suggests that about 50 percent of our empathic capacities are genetically inherited and the rest we can learn, because empathy is not simply a matter of wiring, he explains, adding that adversity can also lend itself to the development of an empathetic nature. i recently met a stand-up comic who has lived with cerebral palsy all her life. she has an amazing empathy with people who not only have physical disabilities, but who get marginalized by society in other ways, he says.orloff also mentioned how adversity contributes to an empathetic nature: a portion of empaths ive treated have experienced early trauma such as emotional or physical abuse, or they were raised by alcoholic, depressed or narcissistic parents, potentially wearing down the usual healthy defenses that a child with nurturing parents develops.empathy can be a struggle in this societydavid sauvage, an empath performance artist who consults with corporations and entrepreneurs on building more empathetic cultures, says the basis of empathy is emotional self-awareness  which isnt a skill fostered by todays achievement-driven culture.the average person in our culture doesnt have much empathy toward others because we prioritize everything other than emotional well-being, he explains. how often are boys told to suck it up? how often are girls told theyre acting crazy? how many times during the course of the day do we feel like we shouldnt feel a certain way, so we hide our sadness only to feel shame around that sadness? theres no healthy balance between the negation of peoples feelings and the acceptance of peoples feelings. the only way to cope is to disassociate, explains sauvage.can empathy really be taught?krznaric says empathy is a skill that you can learn, like riding a bike or driving a car, and that some learn it really early in life. its easier to develop the cognitive capacity to make that imaginative leap into someone elses perspective, he says.to help her patients relate to each other, orloff puts them into an empathy training program. it can be as simple as getting people into the habit of asking others how they are and actually listening to the answer, she says.empathy is a skill that you can learn, like riding a bike or driving a car, and that some learn it really early in life.yet, sauvage says teaching empathy is rarely a straightforward process. if someone both doesnt understand what it means to be another person  and they dont care  you cant just ask them to close their eyes and do it. they will shut off, he explains. you cant feel for others if youre shut off from your own emotional experience.how can we promote empathy?though empathy is necessary to forge a better understanding between people of different cultures and belief systems, science says our brains may be wired to empathize more with people who look like us. a recent study published in trends of cognitive science examined brain scans to better understand how the brain works in relation to racial bias and empathy. consistently, people had increased neural responses to the perceived pain of the same-race compared with other-race individuals in many areas of the brain, at different times.all the more reason for empathy to taught at a young age. as a leading example, krznaric mentioned roots of empathy, a canadian-based global non-profit that teaches young, school-aged children to empathize with each other. according to their research summary, children who participated in the program were approximately 50 percent less lightly to fight.perhaps this is why orloff describes empathy as the medicine that will save the world. when someone feels like you are empathizing with them instead of judging them, the communication between you will be dramatically improved, she says. or, as sauvage points out, we could shift wellbeing to the forefront of our priorities. if we want to build a culture of empathy, we have to have a culture of emotional literacy, he says. of course, this requires actually listening to the answer when you ask how someone is.more social studiesthe secret to stronger friendships: how to build better bonds5 kinds of office jerks: are you one of them?how to tell if someone is lying to you, according to behavioral expertswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

were heading into summer  time to kick back and relax, right? not for a lot of us. more than half of u.s. workers dont use all of their vacation days, even though taking time to rest and rejuvenate is key to productivity.people recognize that they need this time for themselves  in a survey of full-time workers in the u.s. 45 percent say that paid time off for mental health days would help them beat burnout. but they struggle to break away from the incessant demands of the office.45 percent of full-time workers say that paid time off for mental health days would help them beat burnout.even a single day off can feel like a break, and summer is an ideal time to get a day to yourself on the calendar.why we need to rechargewhen you work without breaks youre busy, but not necessarily productive. its important to have opportunities to rest and reflect and recharge. its a mistake to think that more hours worked equals more productivity, says leah weiss, ph.d., author of how we work and a stanford graduate school of business lecturer. our bodies and minds are not meant to push constantly  even elite athletes need to have rest as part of the process of becoming stronger.tara osullivan, chief creative officer at skillsoft, compares time off to sleep. sleep is when everything repairs itself and allows the body to recover. you need to allow your thought process to do the same, she says.our bodies and minds are not meant to push constantly  even elite athletes need to have rest as part of the process of becoming stronger.sacrifice your need to recharge and ultimately you sacrifice your health. youre not doing anybody any favors if you give up your mental health for a job. the healthiest people are the ones who take time for themselves and their families, says katherine nelson, an instructor in the human resource management department at temple universitys fox school of business in philadelphia.5 ways to make it happenthe demands of work will always be there. but with planning you can push them away for a day.start with your calendar. does your work cycle have slower and busier periods? pick a slower day and youll be more likely to stick with your plan.make a commitment. if you think youll be tempted to cancel your day off and come into work, plan something you wont want to give up. sign up for a seminar, buy tickets to a concert or sporting event, book a spa day or make plans with a friend.enlist your colleagues. ask them what they think theyll need when youre out, so you can prepare. set parameters  maybe they will call your cell phone if something truly critical comes up. that way you free yourself from checking email and texts.send a strong out-of-office message. provide email addresses and phone numbers of colleagues people can contact while youre out. chris dyer, author of the power of company culture, recommends asking people to resend their messages after your return day, and deleting all the emails that came in while you were out. really.trust your team. the world wont end if you take a day off. we all think were indispensable, but none of us are. if you got hit by a truck tomorrow your boss would figure out a workaround, nelson says.you have your day off. now what?it might be tempting to just keep the day wide open, but thats a mistake. you wont be rejuvenated if you feel like you wasted the day watching netflix. and dont tackle a to-do list, either. this is not a day for oil changes and dentist appointments. think about what you need, and design your day ahead of time.ask yourself what kinds of things you would do if you had six months to live.know what makes you feel better. for a lot of people, top choices are spending time outdoors, movement and social connection. plan activities where you get lost in the flow, says kristina hallett, ph.d., a board-certified clinical psychologist and author of own best friend: eight steps to a life of purpose, passion, and ease.learning can be restorative, so if learning isnt part of your job try using this day for expanding your brain. practice an instrument, take an art lesson or attend a workshop.not sure what you would like to do? ask yourself what kinds of things you would do if you had six months to live, says karissa thacker, ph.d., author of the art of authenticity. is there a scaled-down version of those things you could do in a free day? if travel is on your list, see a nearby city or attraction. if its spending time with your kids, consider pulling them out of school for a trip to the zoo or a ball game.one day off here and there can be a fantastic reminder of life outside of work. there is always another perspective. you just have to move to see it, osullivan says.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

hitting a major goal or completing a long-term project brings with it a tremendous sense of satisfaction, as well as an almost inevitable letdown. you put your all into something, but what happens when that sense of urgency is gone or life gets in the way once you let your guard down?on february 1, 2018, i completed my year-long project to adhere to the federal physical activity guidelines and dietary guidelines with the support of the science &amp; research team of the american council on exercise (ace).i woke that morning elated about having finished a task that had become my driving focus each and every day for the previous year. i had achieved a level of health and fitness that seemed extremely unlikely just 12 months earlier. and i had learned to live a life that made me not only healthier and more active, but genuinely happier.i was thrilled.i was also ready for a break.the physical effort involved in the project left me drained. for a year, i recorded every minute of physical activity. i logged every piece of fruit and cup of dairy. i tracked the color of every veggie i ate. while i certainly planned on maintaining a healthy nutrition and physical-activity program going forward, i simply needed a break from being so exacting and disciplined in every aspect of my lifestyle.my plan was to continue following the rules i had learned, but to prepare my food without a kitchen scale or measuring cup in sight  and maybe visit a few restaurants that i had been avoiding.i also wanted to maintain the fitness regimen that had kept me progressing (and pain-free) for the previous year. that said, i would give myself some leeway to skip a workout here or there.one month of loosening the reigns and then id get back on track and regain the discipline that allowed my success in the first place. that was the plan.but you know what they say about plans.on literally the last night of that month, as my wife and i were getting ready for bed, our son yelled from downstairs, do you guys hear water running?by the time we found the leaking pipe and turned the water off, water had destroyed an entire bathroom and the carpet on the second floor, and had run through the ceiling and walls enough to destroy most of the kitchen and the hardwood on the first floor.to make a long, painful story short, after spending more than 40 of the next 60 nights in a hotel, my eating habits were as much of a wreck as my house, and my workout routine had been completely dismantled.thats how i found myself only 90 days removed from one of the biggest achievements of my life, 8 or 10 pounds heavier and decidedly off track.so now what?no matter why you may have lapsed in your efforts, whether it was illness, injury or the plumbing gods sending a flood to mock your best-laid plans, there are strategies you can use to get back on top of your game.remember that youve been successful beforeone of the best predictors of a persons ability to adhere to a nutrition plan or physical-activity program in the future is having done so successfully in the past. fortunately, i have a lot of knowledge and experience to fall back on.i now not only know what i need to do to change my lifestyle, but i also have recent experience in establishing and maintaining the habits required for success.the biggest difference between the current me and the version of me from just 15 months ago is this: i know what to do. and i know that i can do it.reach out to your support networkanother predictor of adherence to lifestyle change is the presence of a reliable social-support network. i reached out to those people who helped me the first time around and re-enlisted their support. i talked to my wife about cooking healthier dinners and buying fewer high-sugar snacks, and i called my hiking partners to set up a schedule to hit the trails at least once a week.if you find yourself in the same situation, think about the people who positively influenced your efforts and make them aware that you could use their help in recommitting to a healthy lifestyle.reestablish old habits, but start slowlyas i write this, ive been back in my home for about two weeks. im easing back into my workout routine and eating much healthier. ive gone for a few hikes and have been taking the dog for a couple of walks each day. im feeling better already and am looking forward to reestablishing the important habits that i had let slip.you might feel a drive, as i did, to pick up right where you left off. however, that might prove to be a mistake, as you dont want to push yourself too far too soon. be patient, but persistent.i know you can do it.im honored that nbc news better invited me to share my journey with you through the completion of the lifestyle project and beyond, and now i want to hear from you. do you have any strategies to share that helped you get back on track after some time off? tell me about them. have questions about my journey? ask me on twitter or follow me on instagram.more from daniel j. greens inspiring weight loss journeyim an overweight health editor and im finally taking my own advicewhat 5 months of consistent, healthy weight loss looks likewhy im reconsidering the idea of ideal weightwhy losing weight has nothing to do with the scalewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

a few weeks before i got married, i sat next to my then fianc and four other couples in a pre-marital workshop talking about conflict styles and our love languages (hello, helping me with the dishes).when discussing conflict, one thing the therapist said struck me in particular: \"we are all carrying backpacks that we continually load up. we keep stuffing them full until one day, they cant zip and the stuff starts spilling out all over the place.\"it stood out to me so much because it reminded me of something a friend had said a few years back after breaking up with his girlfriend. when asked what happened he simply said, my backpack was getting too heavy, and she was only adding weight, not helping it feel lighter.it turned out he wasnt originally astute, but stole the concept from george clooney in the 2009 film, up in the air.so what is this proverbial backpack? and how can we prevent it from filling up to the point where we feel like we cant carry all of our stuff?to get to the bottom of it (pun intended), i enlisted the help of mental health experts to find out what experiences weigh us down, how this emotional weight is holding us back, and what we can do to begin emptying out the junk.mental baggage: a coping mechanismemotional baggage or emotional backpacks are used to describe all of the unresolved emotional issues; traumas and stresses from the past (and present) that occupy your mind and even body, says karol ward, lcsw, author of \"worried sick: break free from chronic worry to achieve mental &amp; physical health.\" mental baggage is the tendency to ruminate or think negatively about past or current issues that have not been resolved. ward has heard clients describe feeling physically weighted down by feelings. there is a tension in the body that shows up in tight shoulders or necks, upset stomachs and headaches, she says. emotional baggage does feel like you are wearing or carrying a bag filled with emotions.we respond to experiences emotionally and carry our perceived view of the consequences with us into new experiences, adds william gibson, ph.d., associate professor of psychology and marriage family therapy program director at?brandman university. we seek to learn from our past experiences, which is a healthy behavioral pattern. this, however, includes carrying forward threatening and unhealthy baggage. it is a component of human development to carry our personal perception of our past experience with us. the key to healthier functionality lies in learning to manage our perceptions and strengthen ourselves as we mature in order to respond to our daily experience in healthier ways.the problem with carrying a heavy loadwhile carrying past experiences (and the emotions that came with them) may help us better navigate future experiences, they also take a toll on our health.one study found that emotional baggage can be a real barrier to making healthy lifestyle changes (like exercising more, eating healthier or quitting smoking). participants described being burdened by an emotional baggage with problems from childhood and/or with family, work and social life issues, found the study. respondents said that they felt that emotional baggage was an important explanation for why they were stuck in old habits and that conversely, being stuck in old habits added load to their already emotional baggage and made it heavier.this baggage can also interfere with professional ambition or goals, healthy relationships, personal contentment and the enjoyment of life, says ward. until you bring to your awareness why your life is not going the way you want; you can feel like a victim, someone who is being tossed around by lifes circumstances.we often are influenced by past emotional experiences in how we interpret and perceive current personal interactions and primary relationships, adds gibson. our relationships with others often include emotional responses and our responses are likely to be prejudiced, both positively and negatively, by past experiences.is it emotional baggage or just a bad day?of course, negative emotions  and responses to others  are a natural part of life. so how do we tell the difference between healthy, negative experiences and harmful emotional baggage?the difference between emotional baggage and a bad day is that the emotional residue from a bad day is usually gone after a good nights sleep, while emotional baggage tends to keep us in a consistently low frame of mind most of the time, says ward.ward suggests having this general check-in with yourself to determine if youre carrying around some excess baggage that may be affecting your mental health:are you in a state of anxiety? there might be unresolved fear or trauma in the background.are you feeling sad or blue? there probably is unresolved hurt or loss in the background.are you continually angry and looking for a fight? most times there is unexpressed anger that is being acted out in the present.normal upsets are fluid, you have the feelings, you express them or share them with someone else, and then you let them go, says ward. when emotional states of mind start to interfere in your everyday functioning, thats when they can be harmful to your psychological well-being.in addition to your general state of mind, ward says that unresolved emotions often show up in behaviors such as:spending too much moneydrinking too mucheating too muchroad rageoutbursts of tears or anger at home, in public or in the workplacewhat is weighing you down?if you do recognize some of these emotions or behaviors in yourself, the next step is determining the underlying cause. emotional baggage is as unique to each person as the suitcase they pack it in. but there are some common issues  and feelings surrounding them  that arise, says ward. some of the recurring issues she sees in her clients include:unexpressed feelings of hurt towards loved ones; partner, spouse, friends or colleagues. these can be feelings from the present or the pastunresolved anger about situations where we didnt speak up or felt powerless, such as a personal or professional relationshipregret about not taking an opportunity, making a mistake or for losing a relationshipgrief about the loss of someone close whether it is parent, romantic partner, friend and even a petthe main thing is that when feelings have not been able to run their course, they tend to hang around, says ward. and its not only past experiences that contribute to the weight: current issues that may be ongoing such as a crazy-making boss, a series of disappointing dates or an unsuccessful job search, are seen as emotional baggage as well because they are, at least temporarily, on-going, says ward. you can feel powerless during these times and it can color your world view.how to unload your backpackif you do suspect that unresolved emotions are weighing you down, youve already taken the first step in lightening your load.emotional healing is a process. awareness might have to occur many times even while you repeat the same unhealthy patterns of behavior. this is normal, says ward. we dont change until staying the same becomes too uncomfortable. and that is a process that cant be rushed even though you may desire change quickly.once you are ready to face those emotions head on and make a change, here are how experts recommend going about it:work from the outside in. pay attention to what areas of your life are not working the way you would like them to be working, says ward. separate out temporary struggles (like a recent breakup or job change). stuck areas are ones such as unfulfilling relationships, dead-end jobs, credit card debt or health issues that you want to change but havent been able to over the years. most times, the areas you are most frustrated about are the ones where there is emotional baggage. then its time for the inside-out work. working through and understanding why you do what you do.make a list. make a list of the top things you want to change in your life. the list may be familiar because it probably has one or two of the same issues you have been wanting to change over the years, says ward. there also might be present day issues as well such as a difficult colleague, roommates, spouse or issues with kids. start with the one area thats bothering you the most and focus on that. most times in my coaching and private practice, a theme starts to emerge with many of the issues in the emotional backpack being linked together. so dont worry so much about where you are starting. what matters most is that you are starting the process of unpacking.let yourself express those feelings before moving on. allowing yourself to feel feelings about the past and present is very freeing, says ward. many times people rush to forgive when they become aware of what happened to them. forgiveness is a process and will come in time  sometimes forgiveness is simply being at peace within yourself without having to tell someone you forgive them. once feelings are expressed and resolved within you, acceptance and moving forward with your life can occur.give it time. know that letting go is a process and not a quick fix. human beings are sensitive and complex, much more than i think we realize, says ward. taking the time to heal is not a failure; its actually the best gift you can give yourself.consider getting help. people need a safe place to process their feelings. having someone trained to help you understand what you feel, provide the space for you to feel your feelings, and then help you take the steps you need to change, is very important, says ward. therapists, skilled coaches and spiritual counselors are good resources for this. look for recommendations from people you know and trust.how to keep your backpack from filling up againunloading the backpack is only part of the equation. once it is emptied to a manageable level, you then enter a maintenance phase, where you need to continually work to prevent it from being stuffed full again.there are lots of resources to tap that help keep baggage from building up, says ward. journaling, therapy, coaching, 12-step programs, meditation, mentors and even exercise will help you find and keep mental and emotional clarity.what each of these things offers us is the \"pause\" from everyday life to really get in touch with those underlying emotions so that we can address them and then let them go. whether its an outside voice or your own inner voice, having the space and time to figure it out is what will help the most, says ward.more mental health tipshow defusing my thoughts helped me claw my way back from debilitating anxiety7 steps for getting through a panic attackstressed? heres how to tap into a zen feeling almost instantlyhow to worry betterhow to talk about mental health issues at workwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

in one of the last office jobs i held, i was chummy with my colleagues and spent time with them outside the office. but i never told them that the reason i had to leave at 5pm sharp every other tuesday was for therapy for depression. i was secretive because i was worried that i would be viewed as \"troubled\" or defective by my co-workers and afraid that our boss, infamous for his petulant labeling of people, would dub me the crazy one. i often missed the appointment because work ran late and i didnt speak up.looking back, i dont regret keeping private about my mental health issues in that job, but i wish i hadnt felt obligated to be silent from fear of being seen as weak or unstable. but now it seems some companies are taking notice and are actively putting into place programs that help their employees focus on good mental health as well as physical.lyft listened to employees and now provides therapy free to employees and their familiesperhaps the best way to destigmatize mental health in the workplace, is to ask employees what they need to be supported, and then help meet those needs.take lyft for example. emily nishi, the chief people officer at lyft, says the company recently added free behavioral therapy for all full-time employees and their family members after recognizing that the need for mental health support was a pervasive issue across the entire workforce.education is a key part of this effort, says nishi. working with experts at lyra, we developed a manager guide to provide leadership with detailed information and resources to help them better recognize signs and symptoms of mental health issues and how to properly escalate more serious concerns.companies are waking up, but we forget that mental health is the center of well-beingmost employers tend to stress that they want to help their employees to be healthy. they may provide flu shots during flu season, or let us go home and rest if we have a bellyache. but what about if were having an anxiety flare-up or a wave of depression? im sure there are bosses out there who are empathetic, but generally this mental health territory is a lot more nebulous, and though it may be taken more seriously by companies its rarely treated with the same urgent reverence as say, a chest cold.and it needs to be.what people may sometimes forget to prioritize when it comes to discussing mental health in the workplace is that at the center of it all is the well-being of a companys biggest asset  its people  and nothing is more important, says seth burr, co-founder and coo of labur, a recruiting firm in boston, adding that hes seeing more companies grasp this. when [mental health] becomes the focus, i think organizations will be surprised by their return on investment. prioritizing mental health means happier, healthier and more productive and creative people. to me, its a win-win.the first step is to recognize that mental illness is happeningbut how might upper management tackle this topic of mental health to begin with? first it must recognize that mental illness is a part of normal life, paradoxical as that may sound. one in five adults experience mental illness in any given year.\"its unreasonable to think life is just about business, says duane hixon, ceo of n2 publishing. everybody struggles, and challenges like mental health issues eventually spill over into the workplace. so, as a leader, you cant pretend it isnt happening. instead of looking the other way, create an environment where team members feel welcome and encouraged to talk about their struggles. find out if any team member is willing to talk openly about their past mental health issues and would serve as a support system for those who are facing challenges today. no one should feel like theyre alone in their struggle  especially not in a place they spend 40 hours a week.\"if youre a leader whos had mental health troubles, open up about themim now comfortable enough with my mental illnesses to share openly, but i wasnt so willing back when i was actually in an office. this is likely the case for a lot of employees, which is why executives may want to kick off the sharing.great bosses that really want to start the discussion and reduce the stigma [may] set the culture by sharing their stories of struggles, says josh goldberg, executive director of boulder crest, a mental health center for veterans and the co-author of struggle well: thriving in the aftermath of trauma. normalize struggle by recognizing it is a human condition we all face.dedicate time to talk about something other than workspending one-on-one time with employees to talk about regular life stuff (and not work) can be challenging, but its a worthwhile move.spend time with your people. if you have an office job, you probably spend a lot of time in meetings. almost all of those meetings are about work [i.e.] whats the status of this, whats the plan for that, says nicole thurman, vp of talent management, chg healthcare. we encourage our leaders to also have regular one-on-one meetings about anything the employee wants to talk about. that could mean talking about their family, whats stressing them out at work or at home or any conflicts theyre dealing with. if employees and their leaders spend time with each other on a personal level, its much easier for them to talk about stressors or mental health concerns.lean on your employee assistance programif youre unsure of how to tackle mental health (as an employer or employee), turn to your employee assistance program (eap) for guidance.utilizing existing eap resources to talk about things like anxiety, seasonal depression and daily stressors can help begin to normalize these conditions as something that many individuals experience, says dr. rachel oneill, an ohio-licensed professional clinical counselor and talkspace primary therapist. it can be especially helpful to talk about effective ways to deal with stress  things like mindfulness and meditation practices  both of which have been shown to increase workplace productivity. in general, the more a workplace encourages conversation around mental health and wellness, the more likely employees are to recognize the importance of self-care.\"denise m. rousseau, a professor of organizational behavior and public policy at carnegie mellon universitys heinz college of information systems and public policy and the tepper school of business, and the faculty director of the institute for social enterprise and innovation and chair of health care policy and management program notes that your eap can also help with training hr and leadership in providing resources.many times an employee comes in with an issue and doesnt yet have a course of action. theyre not yet at the point of saying i have a therapist appointment at [x] time. what if they dont have a solution? thats where [the company] needs the skills to be receptive and also prepared to provide resources.three things you as an employee can doideally your employer is recognizing that mental health and physical health are closely connected as rousseau puts it. but you as an employee can do a number of things to advocate for yourself:dont assume your boss will judge or deny you. we shouldnt be so quick to assume the worse.do not preempt, says rousseau. this is especially a problem for women  that old notion they dont like to ask. its important to speak up and not assume youre manager will say no. if they do, go up a level.be upfront and proactive. i would recommend addressing potential conflicts and problems head on, not waiting until things have gotten really bad to finally say or do something, dr. farrah hauke, a psychologist. be direct about what you need with your employer, [but] share only what you feel comfortable with sharing.commit to ending the stigma in your own thoughts. hauke notes that its critical that we ourselves think of mental health as any other condition for which you might need time off or accommodation, adding the stigma starts with you.more mental health tipshow defusing my thoughts helped me claw my way back from debilitating anxiety7 steps for getting through a panic attackstressed? heres how to tap into a zen feeling almost instantlyhow to worry betterwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

summer road trips are going to cost significantly more this year as gasoline prices continue to climb. the national average for regular is now $2.96  thats 59 cents a gallon more than last year and the highest price going into a memorial day weekend since 2014 when the national average was $3.65 a gallon, according to aaa.regardless of where you live, it is going to be an expensive summer for gas, said aaas jeanette casselano.aaa expects the national average to hit $3 a gallon in june. and it could go higher, depending on crude prices and demand levels, casselano said. the average price for regular is already $3 a gallon or more in 17 states and the district of columbia. click here to find the average price where you live or where youll be travelling.for some people, this pain at the pump will put a crimp in their summer travel plans. more americans plan to drive less and stay home or close to home this year, according to gasbuddys 2018 summer travel survey released this week.only 58 percent of gasbuddys members said they planned to take a road trip this summer  a 24 percent decrease from last year. of those, 39 percent said gas prices had an impact on their travel decisions.how to squeeze more miles out of every gallonautomotive experts agree: the biggest impact on your fuel economy is the way you drive.our tests show that a 37 percent fuel savings is possible, if you slow down your driving, dont accelerate as hard and brake easier, said ron montoya, senior consumer advice editor at edmunds.when driving on the highway, try to maintain a steady pace and watch your speed. consumer reports says going from 55 mph to 75 is like moving from a compact car to a large suv, in terms of fuel consumption.the magazine did real-life road tests with a honda accord, toyota rav4 and three models of the ford fusion (including a hybrid). they found that going faster than 55 mph will drain your gas tank faster.when going from 55 to 65 mph, we lost between four and eight mpg. increasing to 75 mph cut fuel economy an additional 5 to 7 miles per gallon, said jon linkov, deputy automotive editor at consumer reports. if youre driving 55 and you go 20 miles an hour faster, you can lose as much as 15 miles per gallon.other simple ways to cut your fuel coststhe auto editors at consumer reports suggest a few more things you can do:dont carry cargo on the roof unless necessary: anything that increases the cars aerodynamic drag will make the engine work harder and burn more fuel  even an empty bike rack. around town, its not going to be a huge difference, but for highway driving, really try to eliminate having anything on the roof, linkov said.consumer reports tested a 2013 honda accord at a steady 65 mph. with nothing on the roof, the car got 43 mpg. an empty bike rack cut that to 38. the fuel economy dropped to 27 mpg when two bikes were attached to the rack.dont warm up the car before driving: that was important when cars had carburetors. todays electronically controlled, fuel-injected engines dont need to be warmed up. your vehicles engine is most efficient when its at regular operating temperature and the quickest way to do that is to start driving.keep tires properly inflated: under-inflated tires will have a modest impact on mileage, but they can greatly compromise the cars handling and braking. tires also run hotter and wear faster when under-inflated, which can lead to tire failure.dont waste money on premium gas, if your car doesnt need it: most cars are designed to run on regular gas. premium fuel is for sports cars and luxury vehicles with high-performance engines. not sure what your car needs? check the owners manual or the sticker on the fuel-filler door. if it says premium recommended, you can use regular. if it says premium required, use a higher-octane fuel. (consumer reports tested fuel economy and acceleration on different grades of gasoline)if you use regular and hear the engine ping or knock and it bothers you, switch to premium for a few fill-ups. the pinging is not going to damage the engine, linkov said. its just the way the fuel is burning in the engine.staying cool: ac or open the windows?using the air conditioner reduces fuel economy. the impact grows as the outside temperature rises and the ac system needs to work harder. based on its road tests, consumer reports says expect a drop of from 1 to 4 mpg with the ac running.but wont open windows create more aerodynamic drag and reduce mileage? consumer reports didnt notice any effect on fuel economy when opening the windows at 65 mph.this may be one of those situations where your personal comfort is worth the slight drop in mileage. the ac keeps you cool, so it keeps you a little more attentive, linkov told nbc news better. also, theres no wind buffeting. you open the windows at highway speeds, even at 55, thats a lot of noise. so, not only are you possibly warm, youre also getting buffeted by the wind constantly, and thats tiring.fact or myth? its better to fill-up in the morningautomotive experts grin when they hear the advice to fill up in the morning when the air is cool, rather than later in the day. the logic behind this myth: cooler gasoline is denser, so youll get more for your money.nearly all gas stations store their fuel in underground tanks. its already cool and the temperature changes very little, if at all, during the day, linkov said. so, fill up whenever you want.think fuel economy when you buy your next vehicleamerican car buyers are focused on size and luxury right now. fuel-efficient compacts are being replaced with bigger suvs and pickup trucks. no one can predict how high gasoline prices will go during the current surge, but the trend is clearly higher.buying a car is an expensive multi-year commitment, which is why you need to consider fuel costs when you compare vehicles, said jack gillis, author of the car book. electric vehicles are a great way to insulate yourself from rising fuel costs, and there are some excellent electric models to choose from, like the chevrolet bolt, nissan leaf, toyota prius and kia soul electric. but there are plenty of hybrid models that deliver exceptional mileage  40 to 50 mpg, gillis said.a few examples of these fuel-stingy hybrids: toyota camry (52 mpg combined), honda accord (47 mpg), chevrolet malibu (46 mpg) and kia optima (42 mpg). you can compare mileage ratings at the u.s. department of energys fueleconomy.gov.nbc news better ran the numbers to show the long-term impact of buying a more efficient model.we compared the yearly cost of fuel for a 2018 toyota tundra (4wd 8 cyl., 5.7 l, automatic) that gets 14 mpg overall, versus a 2018 toyota avalon hybrid with a fuel economy ratings of 40 mpg overall. the figures are based on 12,000 miles a year (what the average american drives) with gas prices at $3 a gallon and $4 a gallon. remember: the statewide average in california is currently $3.72.2018 toyota tundra: $2,571 at $3 a gallon / $3,428 at $4 a gallon2018 toyota avalon hybrid: $900 at $3 a gallon / $1,200 at $4 a gallonthe difference over the course or a year: $1,671 at $3 a gallon / $2,228 at $4 a gallonconsumer reports guide to fuel economy has information on the best and worst models for fuel economy, plus reviews of the latest high-mpg vehicles. the gas mileage savings calculator from edmunds shows how long it will take to pay off the balance of a vehicle purchase of a more fuel-efficient vehicle when trading in a gas guzzler.get more simple money hacksthe 2-minute rule i use to effortlessly manage my moneymoney hacks thatll help you save (and keep you safe)how to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

before having kids, tech entrepreneur nirav tolia spent hours online each day catching up on his favorite sports teams, doing research, or scrolling through social media.now the father of three young sons, tolia, the co-founder and chief executive of neighborhood-based social network nextdoor, goes out of his way to put his smartphone down so he and his wife can lead by example for their kids.our real priority is getting them out of the house and experiencing the world, tolia, who lives in san francisco, said. we have a no-phone policy when were with our children. that doesnt mean we dont have our phones with us  but were not watching youtube out of the corner of our eyes.tolia said hes witnessed a seismic shift among other silicon valley executives, too, as they have become parents amid growing evidence of technologys pitfalls for children. recent research has found that smartphones may be making kids more depressed, social media may cause increased anxiety, and theres a possible connection between gaming and lower grades.but kids device use shows no sign of slowing: 45 percent of teens say they are online nearly constantly, and mobile device time for children under 9 has tripled in recent years to an average of 48 minutes per day.for advice on raising kids in the digital age, nbc news asked tolia and nine other tech executives what boundaries they set for their own children. here are some of their rules.whats allowed:an hour of device time  once dinner and homework are doneroy sehgal, chief operating officer of image-sharing site imgurkids: sahana, 8, and mohan, 5sehgal believes technology can be an important tool for creativity and learning  but he also recognizes its downsides based on the years that hes spent working on mobile, entertainment and social products.i think a lot about the impact that theyre having on our kids, and i think about the social platforms in particular because they become these attention monopolies. they exploit our relationships, our psychology, and its this never-ending game of acquiring likes, he said.as a result, sehgals kids dont get any device time during meals, in their bedrooms, or until after their homework is done. sehgal and his wife dont permit messaging on social media and limit the more passive areas of technology, like watching videos. instead, sehgal prefers games like minecraft, or apps that teach coding.an hour of tv on saturday mornings  watched together as siblingsnirav tolia, co-founder and chief executive of neighborhood-based social network nextdoorkids: deven, 5, dylan 4, and declan, 2with nextdoor, tolia set out to create a network that helped people make connections out in the real world, not escape from it.he hopes his kids will see technology the same way, and tries to lead by example: the only time hes on his phone when theyre together is to see when a store or restaurant opens, or to order takeout.screen time for his three sons is limited. the boys are allowed an hour of television on the weekends  but it must be done as a trio, so it creates family time.its always at home, sitting together on the couch with blankets, tolia said.he and his wife try not to rely on technology as a way to stop tantrums. part of that, he explained, is because handing a phone to the boys wont necessarily create more peace.if i give them the phone, he said, that thing will just be fought over till the end of time.screen time, but a book must be read for a half hour firstgabriel weinberg, ceo and founder of internet privacy company duckduckgokids: eli, 9, and ryan, 7weinberg wants his sons to have a mixture of education and fun in their lives  both on and off their devices. the boys get screen time every day, but have to read a book or do another non-screen activity first.when it comes to screen time, one day is a \"learning day,\" when they can only use educational apps; the following is a \"game day,\" where they can play on the ipad or computer  but only with parentally pre-approved games and apps.weinberg and his wife have never shied away from technology  they allowed their son to play sesame street apps on the ipad when he was 1  but they still want to provide some structure and supervision. left on their own, the boys would \"just watch endless videos\" or drift toward non-educational games, weinberg said.apps like instagram  with a reality checkkendra ragatz, coo and general partner of aspect ventures, a female-founded firm of early-stage technology investorskids: two girls, ages 11 and 14the girls can text and use apps oked by their parents  which is decided on a case-by-case basis.i think its a great opportunity as a parent to let them have a few select apps and to talk with them about it,\" ragatz said.one of her 14-year-olds favorites is instagram, which ragatz decided to allow after a discussion about the potential for images there to be filtered or distorted in a way that presents an unrealistic standard of beauty.its just working with them and having that dialogue around why something might be useful, but you have to use it in a certain way, and why something that youre consuming is valuable  but may not be authentic, she said.unlimited screen time  as long as its for something educationalhadi partovi, founder and ceo of education nonprofit code.org, a coding platform in schoolskids: darius, 11, sofia, 9, and maziar, 5partovi doesnt think screen time itself is bad. the goal of his nonprofit is to get kids on computers to learn about coding  and his children are allowed to spend as much time as they want on the platform.partovis older two kids have their own smartphones. if they want an app on it, they must make the case first to their parents that it has educational benefits.all of his kids are allowed practically unlimited screen time if theyre learning or being creative, as opposed to spending hours on social media. online puzzles are ok  just not at the dinner table. and nothing that the kids can get overly addicted to (minecraft is allowed in small doses).whats not allowed:no screen time during the week. no social media any time.danielle levitas, senior vice president of research and communications at app annie, which provides data to apps to help them acquire userskids: marcus, 12, and jacqueline, 7levitas said she micromanages the kids technology use. neither has their own smartphone and they are only allowed screen time on the weekends. the kids also arent allowed on social media. youtube is both kids favorite website, and levitas closely monitors what theyre watching, worried about the ads that pop up, even on childrens shows.levitas sets such strict boundaries because she thinks its unrealistic to expect children to limit themselves.we all know the distraction factor that technology brings, levitas said. i dont care what age you are. its so easy to just be like, im just going to look over here for a little bit, and i think to assume children are going to have even more self-control is completely unfair and unrealistic.no screen time before age 2tom cortese, co-founder and chief operating officer of peloton, the fitness and tech company that brings virtual workout studio classes into peoples homeskids: giorgio, 4, and gavriel, 2, and a daughter due in novembercortese feels technology should be used to augment real-life experiences, not as a substitute for them. he and his wife didnt allow screens until their kids turned 2  essentially following the american association of pediatrics guidelines for device use. (the only screen time children under 18 months should have is facetime conversations, the association says, while kids 2 to 5 years old should have no more than an hour a day.)now corteses boys are allowed some tech time, but its limited  in a way that often differs from their peers.you go to restaurants and you see other families...who are having a wonderful, lovely dinner because their kids have an ipad or a phone and theyre quiet and happy, and the parents are conversing with one another, cortese said. when we go out for dinner, were manning the two boys and keeping them fed, and bring crayons and books. it requires a lot of work.no private messaging onlinekate oloughlin, chief operating officer, north america of superawesome, a platform that provides kid-safe marketing tools to brandskids: evelyn, 5, and john, 3oloughlin knows from her job that tech companies frequently fail to think about their products youngest consumers, so its up to parents to educate kids on how to be safe and responsible online.i try to teach them to do self-monitoring, she said. i know im not going to look over my daughters shoulder for every video that she clicks next on, so i ask her, hey, do you think that video is good, is kind, is nice? something that you would want to be? frankly, i think that that has to be the way she learns how to navigate the internet, because moms not always going to be there.she sees value in her kids learning online, from games involving reading and math to bilingual videos. on weekend mornings, she and her husband let their kids use technology, but with tight restrictions, particularly on sites that offer private messaging, because thats where the creeps and bullies come in.no youtube, but streaming videos on amazon is okbrad arkin, chief security officer for software company adobekids: three boys, ages 3, 7, and 9arkin sets parental controls for the familys devices, and he explains his reasoning to his sons. he believes kids should be educated about the possible risks of technology so that when theyre older, they are empowered to make good decisions online.the boys have email accounts to exchange messages with grandparents, aunts and uncles. theyre also allowed to watch videos, but they cant go on youtube. instead, they stream amazons on-demand service, which arkin feels has a lower chance of surfacing unsavory content.i have it on the most restrictive setting, so even if they wanted to, they couldnt visit facebook, he said.(they also are allowed to \"window-shop\" on amazon  mainly so they can daydream about buying $6,000 lego sets.)no devices in the bedroomsteven aldrich, chief product officer at godaddy, which helps people build an online presence for their business ideaskids: jackson, 16jackson has had a phone since sixth grade, and right from the start, aldrich and his wife suggested he leave both his phone and his computer downstairs to charge at night so there wouldnt be any distractions to his sleep.that was really simple and since it was from day one, theres never a debate or argument about whats appropriate use in his bedroom, because there are no devices, aldrich said.other than that, aldrich and his wife dont do content blockers or time limits on devices  just family conversations about how jackson wants to spend his time, both online and offline.\"our kids are going to have to live in a world where these distractions are always with them, aldrich said. the more we can help him make these decisions by himself, the better prepared hell be for the world hes entering.\"correction (june 11, 2018, 12:51 p.m.): an earlier version of this article incorrectly described the websites used by danielle levitas daughter jacqueline. jacqueline does not have an account on musical.ly.

keystone habits are tiny changes that can lead to big transformations, according to constant renewal founder louis chew.the blogger said he began implementing keystone habits after reading the book the power of habit by charles duhigg. according to duhiggs theory, even the smallest of habits can trigger major changes, chew says.essentially, everything else changes just because of this one habit, chew tells nbc news better.for example, lets say you start waking up at 5 am instead of 7 am.its quiet, no one is around, says chew. so you realize you have two hours alone. and so when you are alone you do things very differently, especially when its in the morning. your normal patterns arent interrupted.if you had gone to sleep two hours later instead of waking up two hours earlier, you might have wasted that time watching tv, chew explains. but early in the morning, he says, you are much more likely to spend those two hours doing something productive.for instance, people wake up earlier to get to the gym, he says.whats significant is this small change has a domino effect, he says.for instance, you can use that extra time to go running, which can help you lose weight. or you can spend that time making yourself lunch, which can help you eat healthier and save money in the process.basically every single positive activity is linked to waking up early, chew says.start with step 0even small changes can be difficult to make. instead of focusing on step 1, focus on step 0, says chew. in other words, start with the smallest change possible.you should pick something that is small, says chew. you dont want to do something that is big.for example, if you are used to waking up at 7 am, waking up at 5 am is a big leap.so i might set an alarm clock for 15 minutes earlier than i usually do, says chew. 15 minutes is very doable.as you get more accustomed to waking up early, he says, set the alarm another 15 minutes earlier. eventually, over the course of a week or two, you will reach your two hour goal. of course, youll also need to start going to bed earlier, he says. thats something you can also do gradually as you progress.small changes quickly snowball into bigger oneschew used keystone habits to eat healthier. for him, step 0 was simply tracking his calories every day, which eventually lead to major lifestyle changes.i started exercising, and then after that, because i had to exercise, i had to cut out some of my other activities that were taking up too much time, he says.chew says he stopped wasting time watching tv as a result.so that helps get rid of some negative habits, as well, he says.chew says he now realizes your habits are connected and more related to everything more so than you think.now that he eats healthier, he spends less money on takeout, which has helped him save money for loans and other expenses.you really dont know how big a small change can be because it snowballs so quickly, chew says.how to get started with keystone habitsstart small. whether its waking up early or counting your calories, developing small habits can lead to big transformations.it all starts with step 0.\" habits can be difficult to form, but not if you start with small, incremental changes. for example, if you want to start waking up at 5 am instead of 7 am, getting up two hours earlier than youre used to is going to be difficult. but if you start by waking up 15 minutes earlier and add more time as you go along, its much easier.watch these changes snowball. once you start making small changes, youll begin to develop other positive habits. if you start waking up earlier, for instance, youll have more time to exercise, prepare healthier meals, read, or simply plan your day.more weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

we all have a general sense of what the best diet choices are (even if were guilty of not always making them).water over soda. vegetables over chips. lean protein over red meat.but in our hectic day-to-day lives its inevitable that we run into some situations where its not quite so black and white. while there may not be a best decision at our disposal, equipped with the right knowledge, we can make a slightly better one until we can get back on track.for those situations where there is a bit of grey area, we tapped madelyn fernstrom, ph.d., cns, health and nutrition editor for nbc news and the today show, to school us on what the better decision actually is. its time to put your knowledge to the test. how well can you navigate these common nutritional dilemmas?youre running late for work: is grabbing a donut at the morning meeting better or worse than eating nothing at all?answer: betterwhy: this may be a surprise. some people would think having nothing is better, but try not to skip breakfast, says fernstrom. the problem with skipping food in the morning is it usually makes you over-hungry for lunch and you overeat. the best approach is to eat a modest meal (around 200 calories) within 3 hours of waking up. plus, youve been fasting overnight, so if youre running on an empty stomach your energy levels may be low, she adds. a donut weighs in at about around 300 calories. yes, it has sugar. but it has sugar and fat, which fernstrom says allows the sugar to be absorbed more slowly. and a donut is not the worst thing to choose: you might be surprised to know that a donut has fewer calories and less sugar than a low-fat blueberry muffin, says fernstrom, adding that if you do grab a donut or a muffin, wash it down with a latte for added protein.one caveat: if youre not hungry, dont force yourself to eat. for healthy people, our bodies are really great at keeping blood-sugar levels stable. skipping breakfast generally wont impact blood sugar for most people  we are metabolically built to sustain variations in food intake, says fernstrom. so, if you arent hungry dont grab any food in front of you just to have it. its better to wait and eat when youre hungry. be mindful and see how you feel, thats the best guide of all she adds.youre making an omelet: is using whole eggs better or worse than using egg whites?answer: better why: its better to use that whole egg. its not bad to use the white, but heres the news flash: for health, eggs are back. it used to be eggs are bad, they have a lot of cholesterol and will raise your blood cholesterol and that turns out not to be exactly true,\" says fernstrom. \"the yolk is filled with a lot of nutrients including vitamin d and protein, it does have a little saturated fat and cholesterol, but its not the bad food that weve been taught for so many years. so enjoy a couple of whole eggs. if you dont like whole eggs or dont tolerate them well, opting for just the whites is fine, she adds, but if youre a fan of the yolk theres no need to toss them out!is grabbing a green juice a better or worse breakfast than an egg mcmuffin?answer: worsewhy: green juice is good to have as part of a breakfast, but having the egg sandwich is going to be better. the best thing about an egg mcmuffin is its size  small! says fernstrom. eggs are a great source of protein and often you can get a whole-wheat english muffin and choose canadian bacon (the leanest breakfast meat) and maybe a slice of cheese for a little calcium. it will be satisfying and allow you to grab and go. green juice can be a smart choice as part of breakfast: you want to add a little protein or something with a little substance, says fernstrom. the bottle we picked up had 38 grams of sugar, which while yes, is coming from natural sources, is also almost an entire days worth of recommended sugar intake in one bottle, fernstrom says. the guidelines suggest keeping sugar intake at about 10 teaspoons or 40 grams a day. skip the fruit juice: it strips away the fiber from the fruit, she says. always look for whole pureed fruits and vegetables for the fiber.is bulletproof coffee better or worse than regular coffee?answer: worse why: bulletproof coffee is coffee that has butter in it, sometimes people put coconut oil in, its a paleo favorite,\" says fernstrom. \"this is not a health plus because youre adding saturated fat. it may be filling because of all the fat in it, but you dont want to choose that as your morning beverage.\" in fact, one cup of bulletproof coffee (made with 2 tablespoons of butter and 1 tablespoon of mct oil) clocks in at almost 300 calories and more than 30 grams of fat. \"youre going to get that pop of caffeine in both of them, but you are better off sticking with a cup of coffee and then adding some skim or two-percent milk.its 3 p.m. and your energy is dipping: is a smoothie a better or worse option than a latte?answer: worsewhy: these both could be a good choice, but a reduced-fat or skim milk latte is going to give you a pop of protein and some calcium and vitamin d. its fabulous for you and very satisfying, and remember: if youre not a caffeine lover, you can get it decaf, says fernstrom. you can really get into trouble with the smoothie. if youre making it yourself and just putting in some fruit and maybe some coconut water and ice, thatll be a nice [healthy snack]. the problem is, you dont know whats getting put in when youre going to a store, there can be lots of extra add-ins. chia seeds that you dont need in the afternoon, protein powders  and now you have a 100-calorie smoothie turning into a 500-calorie snack. its way too much for anyone for a snack. so be careful with the smoothies.youre at happy hour with co-workers and they order loaded nachos: is having some nachos better or worse than drinking on an empty stomach?answer: better why: good news: you have a nutritionists blessing to dig in! its better to nibble on some nachos than have an empty stomach, says fernstrom. when your stomach is empty that alcohol goes down very easily and gets absorbed very quickly, so youre more likely to get a little tipsy, and when you have a drink or two your willpower will go right out the window, so you tend to eat a lot more. even better if you have a few bites before you start drinking. the best thing is to have some nachos with three or four people, so let them do the ordering and nibble a little bit, fernstrom adds. your blood alcohol level goes up [as you drink] and then slowly comes back down and having a little food in your stomach is going to be a big help.youre at sunday brunch: is avocado toast a better or worse choice than a western omelet?answer: worsewhy: avocado has heart-healthy fat  but even healthy foods can be calorie bombs! says fernstrom. often, its not going to be a whole-grain bread and you dont know what else is mixed in with the avocado, or what is on top. they can be loaded like nachos. so you start off with something simple, but youre getting a lot of calories. with the western omelet, youre getting a lot of protein and a ton of vegetables. if youre not willing to give up your avocado toast, fernstrom says to look for thin-sliced bread and a moderate dollop of avocado spread on top. many times one order is for two people: two slices of thicker bread topped with a whole mashed avocado can have upwards of 500 calories, so take half home for later.is sweetening your tea with honey better or worse than using table sugar?answer: neither! trick question!why: these are both equivalent forms of sweeteners. they both have 16 calories in a teaspoon. whether it is white sugar, brown sugar, honey, molasses ... some things sound healthier and have a health halo, but they are all sugar, says fernstrom. the way your body sees it is all the same way: its sugar entering your system. so if you feel better about having some honey, or like the difference in taste, its all the same calories. what does matter is the amount you are using. even national guidelines say limit, not eliminate, added sugars. and for this, you need to read labels. taste is not an accurate guideline, she says. aim for up to 10 teaspoons of added sugar per day. do the math: if youre using 3 teaspoons of honey in a cup of tea, multiple times a day, youre already over! fernstrom encourages us to work on taming our sweet tooth, which is a process, when youre accustomed to super-sweet tasting foods. the good news? you can down-regulate your sweet preference. start with adding half the amount of sugar in any beverage you choose and keep trimming until youre at just one teaspoon per serving, she says.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

thanks to smartphone technology and the evolution of the ride-sharing economy, it has never been so easy to get a lift. its incredibly convenient and simple, but having had my fair share of rides in the back seat, ive racked up quite a few harmless but unfavorable tales. sometimes the driver is exhaustively chatty, or, on the other extreme, seems so disengaged i wonder if hes even going the right way. sometimes the car stinks or is in bad condition.i could go on with my unpleasant anecdotes but after looking at a new survey from driving-tests.org, im finding that my vexations as a passenger pale in comparison to the rude (if not downright despicable) behaviors that drivers face from clients. the survey, which polled nearly 500 current or former ride-sharing drivers to pinpoint their top reasons for giving a rider a low star rating, found that people are doing some pretty awful stuff while en route to their destinations. topping the list of worst passenger offenses are vomiting in the vehicle followed by smoking, not showing up, engaging in sexual activity, spilling food or drinks and exceeding available seating.vomiting and smoking are the worst, but seemingly smaller things are also offensiveits expected to see that vomiting and smoking are the worst passenger behaviors according to drivers, says joey morris, project manager working on behalf of driving-tests.org. but when you see that no-show is the third worst behavior, it puts it more in perspective in how rude riders find that to be.this is an important takeaway and one that illuminates that not only does outlandishly uncivil actions (like vomiting) rightly irritate drivers to the point of giving passengers a low-star rating, so do the seemingly less obnoxious behaviors. in addition to being jilted by passengers, drivers also said they give low ratings when clients are backseat drivers, eat without asking first, slam the door and ask personal questions about their lives.i thought i was the ideal passenger, but ive got some changing to doas a passenger ive been guilty of some of these ostensibly lesser misdemeanors. ive slammed doors when in a hurry. ive scarfed down a granola bar without even thinking to ask if thats alright with the driver. ive even been bossy about what routes to take, especially when im in my own neighborhood and think i know it all. no wonder my lyft rating hovers just below 5 stars.reflecting on this, ive come to wonder is it about the uber/lyft environment (or even the on demand gig world at large) that enables us to behave unprofessionally, and how we may all become better passengers.instant gratification can lead to bossy entitlementjacquelyn youst, president of the pennsylvania academy of protocol, an organization that teaches social skills and etiquette, suggests that to an extent weve become spoiled by this ultra-convenient technology where we literally have the world at our fingertips.the instant gratification of having a driver available, at ones beck and call seems to create a sense of entitlement, says youst. with that sense of entitlement, there are customers that show a lack of respect for their drivers, [and] the sentiment of im paying for a service, i can act however i want might play a role in the lack of good manners.the app makes it kinds feel like a gamethe app itself may play an unintentional role in that it tends to dehumanize the whole process. the driver is no more than a name, a microscopic pic, a car model and a license plate. and the car looks like something out of a video game when you watch it in the app, crawling closer to you down the cartoonish little streets.perhaps rude passengers dont recognize [these apps] involve real life person-to-person interaction, speculates youst. perhaps they assume it is an app no different than an internet game. regardless, the uber drivers job is to help passengers reach their destination safely.and we have to respect that, even if it means doing what seems absurd: pausing and remembering each and every time we book a ride that this is real life, this is someones job, and we, as their clients have the obligation of etiquette.drivers can help set the mood for respectthough the onus to be a respectful passenger is on the passenger, drivers can help instill an air of professionalism and courtesy.the easiest way to set a precedent is to model the way with proper behavior, says dr. cooper hakim. step out of the car to greet your passenger. say hello with a smile. ask how the passenger is doing and ask about the passengers travel preferences. ask before turning on the radio. use please and thank you language. keep discussion professional and courteous. exhibit patience yet still set necessary boundaries. for instance, you might post a no smoking sign if you do not want smoking in the vehicle. if someone breaks the rules, clearly remind him or her of the rule in a polite yet serious manner. you might say, excuse me, mam, i apologize for any inconvenience, but there is no smoking in the vehicle. may i offer you a complimentary bottle of water?badly behaved passengers may still light up in the car, or puke or slam the door, or whatever else, but at least youll know your etiquette game was strong, and more likely than not this will pay off.quick, simple ways to be a better passengerin addition to avoiding the bad behaviors identified on driving-tests survey, dr. amy cooper hakim, an industrial-organizational psychology practitioner and principal consultant at the cooper strategic group suggest that passengers should also be proactive in implementing good manners. hakim shares the following tips:make eye contact with the driver, smile, thank him or her and confirm that the driver has the correct address.ask before eating or drinking in the car to ensure that this is permitted by the driver.remember that this is someones actual car. respect his/her property as you would expect someone to respect your property.thank the driver when you arrive at your destination.and of course, dont forget to tip and leave five stars if youre experience is satisfactory. youll probably get five stars back in return.more how to guideshow to complain constructively (and get results)how to be a better bosshow to be a better public speakerhow to tap into a zen feeling anywherehow to make friends as an adultwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

most of us find ourselves in a meeting environment weekly, if not daily: interviewing for a new job, giving a sales presentation to a client, running a meeting at the office, asking your boss for a raise, even breaching a touchy subject with your spouse at home. the list goes on.the premise of each meeting may be different, but the purpose is the same: to effectively communicate your message and achieve a desired result. whether thats adding a new client on your sales roster or a chunk of change to your paycheck.and according to evy poumpouras, a former secret service special agent and interrogator trained by the department of defense in the art and science of lie detection and human behavior, what you say is only the tip of the iceberg.the 4 pillars of effective communicationbefore you even set foot in the room, poumpouras recommends mastering four fundamentals to set yourself up for success.learn to be an active listener. this means not just using your ears, but all your senses when people talk to you. you have to observe people and the vibe in the room. we live in a place where we dont do that. it means putting your phone away. really be there. be present. youre not going to be present if youre distracted.come from a place of empathy. i hear people say, i treat everyone the way i like to be treated. thats the wrong answer. you need to treat people the way they want to be treated, says poumpouras. in order to do that you have to know your audience. do your homework. if they have social media, go look around. find out if you have anything in common with them. people love to find things in common with one another; we like to find people who are like us. so create that by knowing who youre sitting in the room with and then knowing what to say and what not to say.create the right environment. where you are speaking to people matters and being aware of your environment is really important, says poumpouras. one of her best tips? eliminate barriers between you and your audience. when you have a table you can only see whats happening from the waist up  the lower body gives away just as much as the upper body does. tables also act as a barrier, so do books. you see people holding books up to their chest  its like a bulletproof vest. when you do that youre blocking off your openness to people so you dont seem as open or acceptable. i never stand behind a podium. ever. because i know its creating a barrier, a separation, between me and my audience. and i want my audience to connect with me, feel that its us together, rather than them and me.\"get your mind right. put yourself in the right psychological mindset before you go have these conversations. amp yourself up. pretend youre walking into a boxing ring, says poumpouras. listen to the most bad-ass song you can, the one you listen to before you run five miles or the song that makes you feel good about yourself. the night before, watch movies that make you feel strong and powerful. go shadow box in the bathroom stall where no one can see you. sometimes the mind follows the body. do something that makes you feel strong and courageous. if you have someone who is a good confidence builder, talk to that person or create it internally with music, movies, working out, using your body. do something that will alter your psychological mindset and make you feel powerful, strong and brave.how to read other peoples body languagecreating a solid foundation for being the most effective communicator you can be is the first step. but how many times have you left a meeting and thought, i have no idea how that went? if you know what to look for there are signs everywhere that you can use to assess how the interaction is going, and make adjustments where needed.the only way to know if youre resonating with your audience  whether its your boss, a room full of co-workers or your kids  is to look at people, she says. the majority of what we communicate is actually through our bodies, not through the words we speak. if youre not looking at people, you cant feel them or sense them. i always say, open up your eyes and listen.here are some nonverbal clues that will help you \"read\" the room:the head nod. if people are engaged, youre going to get a head nod, says poumpouras. when i talk to people, the way i know that what im saying is resonating is i see the head nod up and down and i see their eyes follow me.eye contact: its normal for people to break eye contact with you. people arent always going to look at you when you talk, and thats okay. especially if theyre trying to recall things, youll usually see people look up and back or to the side, because theyre trying to access the part of their brain that lets them get information, says poumpouras. but when youre talking you want to make sure that person is engaged with you. if theyre looking away, looking at their notebook scribbling notes, theyre not there with you; thats one of the things i look for.posture: if theyre leaning in, if their hands are out and open, palms facing up, thats a good sign that they are connecting with you, says poumpouras. if theyre leaning back in their chair, they look like theyre hanging out or bored, thats something to be aware of. if people are there youll see it. if someone is leaning in and all of a sudden you say something and their arms crossed, now i know i said something that this person didnt like. but youll miss it if youre not looking.it takes two: take note of your own body languagewere so focused on reading the other person, but they are only 50 percent of the equation, we are the other 50 percent, says poumpouras. you have to think: if i saw me walking into a room, what would i think? you have to flip it and see things from the other persons lens.so often, our goal when we enter a room is to have people like and respect us, but poumpouras says we shouldnt demand respect, we should command it.you cannot make anybody respect you. we have to get rid of that in our minds. respect is something people give. they either want to give it to you or they dont, so if we focus so hard on making people respect you, youre going to drive yourself nuts. what you can do is you can command respect. the way you do that is in the way you carry yourself.it starts with when we enter the room, says poumpouras. whats your posture? are you standing up straight? are your shoulders back? is your chin parallel to the floor? something as simple as that, youre commanding respect. weve all seen those people who when they walk into a room, you can just feel their presence. thats who you want to be.when its your time to talk, poumpouras says to speak with your whole body. dont just sit there and and talk. move your hands. when you speak, use all of you. if youre not passionate about what youre saying, they wont be.7 psychological tricks to get what you want out of a meetingbeyond the physical adjustments we can make to command respect and attention in our communication with others, there are some mental shifts that poumpouras recommends we make as well.1. leave your ego at the door. when you ask yourself does this person like me?  thats your ego talking. your ego has no place in any negotiation, says poumpouras. when i talk to people, my ego gets checked at the door, because im focused on what i need from the other person; its not about my feelings. your ego will sabotage you. whats your greater goal? is it to get the job, to get somebody to purchase your product or services, whatever it is, thats my goal. not do they like me?2. ask: what does this person need from me? i used to do a lot of interrogations on people who committed crimes. i wouldnt walk into a room thinking: i want a confession; i would stop and think, what do they need to hear from me to help them open up and tell me what they did? she says. i would never talk to them from my perspective. if you go in with the perspective i need, i want youre going to lose. go in with the perspective: what does this person need?3. dont just be yourself. you bring different versions of yourself out depending on who youre dealing with. youre a different person when youre talking to your parents, or a significant other or dealing with your boss  you need to find the version of you that works best with the person [youre meeting with], says poumpouras. think: i need to adapt. i did my homework, this is what this person is about. i know i need this from them, but what do they need to hear from me to make them comfortable and open up and buy what im trying to say?4. know when to be quiet. as much as possible, you want to listen more and talk less, says poumpouras. people think if they control the whole conversation theyre the one who has power. its false, because you havent learned anything, she says. the person youre talking to has learned everything about you: what motivates you, what your agenda is, what youre thinking, how you process information. youve learned nothing about them. so when i go into meetings, i try to make sure everyone else speaks and i speak last. i want to learn about everyone in the room, i take mental notes, i size everybody up, and then i can speak more intelligently.5. rely on facts. this rings especially true for times when youre negotiating your salary or a job promotion. take notes of the things you do, so when it is time for you to go in to negotiate these things, youve got a list. this is very factual. you cant argue logic,\" says poumpouras. \"you dont want to go in there saying i feel ive been doing a good job. its i have been doing a good job and let me tell you how. thats gives you more power and confidence. youre falling back on hard facts and numbers, its not i need or i want, its look at what ive done.6. embrace conflict. we live in a world where everyone avoids confrontation. its to the point where we go so out of our way to avoid conflict, that it makes us feel worse,\" says poumpouras. \"so, we need to change our psyche. conflict is not bad. rather than looking at confrontation as a negative thing, embrace it. confrontation doesnt mean somebody yelling at you; youre not going to get in a screaming match with your boss. confrontation means having a discussion about something you dont agree with.7. use ted to always find out the why. there will always be times when people dont agree with you, and thats okay. whats vital is that you get the why. to do this, poumpouras says to remember the acronym ted: tell me, explain, describe. tell me why. explain to me what youre thinking. describe to me what the issues are. boom. open-ended question. let them tell you. put them on the spot, she says. i open up all my meetings with tell me, explain, describe. because i want to gather intel and information, that way i know which way to steer the bus, so to speak.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)want to do a better job? this expert says you should work less4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

ask a gen xer if they remember mr. rogers and theyll likely launch into assorted recollections of the soft-spoken childrens tv show host putting on and taking off sweaters and sneakers in what seems like slow motion. but theres tons more to mr. rogers than his wardrobe choices, as wont you be my neighbor, the upcoming documentary about his life and work, attests.born and raised in the pittsburgh-area, the documentary hints feelings were considered obtrusive in his childhood home, leaving a young fred rogers too scared to use words. adding to what made him withdrawn were some serious illnesses and some serious bullying. to cope, he channeled his feelings into his piano and become quite an adept musician and developed a tremendous empathy and compassion for children as an adult.after a stint in seminary school (he became ordained as a tv evangelist), the launch of a new radio station, wqed, in his hometown, inspired him to create his own brand of comedic original programming for children  with a budget of $30. the playfully violent cartoons he witnessed disturbed him, and he felt it of the utmost importance to create a safe space on television where childrens feelings could be discussed and processed. he believed what we saw or heard on screen would be part of who we became, and aimed to reach as many children as he could with messages of love, friendship, tolerance and acceptance.what he created was an incredibly popular pbs show, mister rogers neighborhood, which had a huge influence on gen x and gen y children  and it just turned 50. it aired for four decades and was completely successful in creating childrens programming that acknowledged their complex range of feelings  both positive and negative. heres four life lessons we learned from this incredibly moving documentary  and from fred rogers himself  that will stay with us for a lifetime.love your neighbor, love yourselflove thy neighbor was always rogers mo: hed even weigh himself each day and smile that he always came in at 143, his own personal numerology code for i love you (just count the letters). and wont you be my neighbor werent just lyrics  it was said in the documentary its an invitation for someone to be close to you  and those words carried rogers in real life. case in point was one of the shows integral characters, officer clemons, a black police officer who lived nearby. with racism and segregation still plaguing our country in the late 60s, the friendship between rogers and clemons was genuine and equal both onscreen, and off. though clemons was gay  and sadly closeted for a long time  he was embraced by rogers as a true friend for life.stand up for what you believe inin the 1969, president nixon threatened to cut all funding for pbs  essentially displacing mister rogers neighborhood. facing a skeptical congress, fred rogers (a peabody award winner) testified to save pbs, explaining how the show provided children with gentle, less violent content than the cartoons of the time. by modeling kind behavior, children learn to manage their inner drama and the kind of anger that arises in simple family situations. i give an expression of care every day to each child, to help him realize that he is unique, he testified. i end the program by saying, youve made this day a special day, by just your being you. theres no person in the whole world like you, and i like you just the way you are. if we in public television can make it clear that feelings are mentionable and manageable, we will have done a great service for mental health. that testimony secured the network with $20 million dollars in funding. it just goes to show, sometimes speaking up can make all the difference.listen to your childrenrogers believed that children have deep feelings the way everyone else does, and his work was a testament to the importance of listening to them, validating them and responding to them. he wasnt afraid to mine unpleasant topics, such as war, death and divorce, for teachable moments. for example, he saw a sad news story about how a child jumped out of a building while pretending to be a superhero. in response, he created a segment to address the issue, acknowledging the lure of flight while guiding children toward safer ways to play superhero. by listening, he understood the real risk behind these depictions was how appealing flying with a cape might seem to a kid when no one else did. another example: soon after mister rogers neighborhood launched in 1968, america entered the vietnam war. the fears and concerns his puppets gave voice to back then seem oddly prophetic today  theres even a reference to building a wall to keep intruders out. rogers used his puppets to help kids work through their feelings of fear, frustration and anger about war, reassuring them the best he could along the way.just being you is enoughit was of the utmost importance to rogers that kids felt valued, liked and appreciated, simply for being who they were. hed acknowledge their feelings of fear and self-doubt and take the time to reassure them through various life challenges. though he gave a lot in this way, he wasnt immune from his own self-doubt; the documentary revealed he questioned himself and his value regularly. perhaps thats why he was viscerally angered by random displays of meanness and cruelty  like those hed witnessed in early cartoons  but he was intent on flipping that script. you dont have to do anything sensational for people to love you, hed once told his audience. with the news cycle revealing that more kids than ever are thinking about suicide, childhood loneliness is on the rise and the continuing scourge of school violence, we couldnt agree more.more parenting hackswant compassionate, bully-proof kids? do thisrealistic screen-time solutions for kids and their parents7 surprising benefits of being an older parentwant more self-reliant, responsible kids? try selbstndigkeit, the german way.how to talk to your kids about alcohol, according to substance abuse expertswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

more u.s. adults than ever before are single  110 million at last count, according to the us census bureau  though the number continues to rise. the majority of them, some 53%, are women. that, as singles expert bella depaulo points out, can be a positive. singles are having more sex than marrieds, she notes. and the idea that being married keeps you healthier seems to no longer be universally accepted  particularly for women. but when it comes to money, being single brings a variety of different, if not necessarily tougher, challenges.single women are the least likely demographic to have a financial plan in place for setting savings goals and paying down debt.in fact, one-third of single women are concerned about their finances according to single women and money, a new piece of research from fidelity investments. it also revealed single women are the least likely demographic to have a financial plan in place for setting savings goals and paying down debt. so what do you need to do and when do you need to do it? heres a decade-by-decade guide to embracing your financial future.in your 20sensure your first jobs offer the total package. in addition to negotiating the highest possible salary, look for packages that include a 401(k), affordable healthcare and tuition reimbursement if graduate school is in your future, says kathi grace, certified financial planner and managing director at united capital.get a grip on student debt. dont stress to prepay at the expense of contributing to your 401(k) or other retirement. instead stick to the schedule from your lender or  if thats unaffordable  reduce your payments by refinancing or looking at income-based repayment.add beneficiaries to all your financial accounts and see an attorney for a will. if something were to happen, this would go a long way toward reducing family stress, says mandi woodruff, money expert at financial education site magnifymoney.com.learn how to save and invest. start stashing money in an emergency fund each month, while simultaneously contributing to your 401(k), woodruff says. even if youre only able to save a little to start, aim to eventually save and invest a total of 15% of what you make each year, including matching dollars from your employer.get on a budget, using an easy-to-use budgeting software like mint. figuring out where your money is going frees you up to both save and spend guiltlessly  without taking on credit card debt.in your 30spay down debt. your 30s can be expensive, grace explains. you may be trying to climb the ladder in your career, travel and buy a home but you wont get to do any of that if you accumulated debt in your 20s. winding down the student loans and eliminating credit card debt can help you move on.consider a financial planner. everyone gets overwhelmed with finances, and while married couples have someone to bounce ideas off of, single women need to seek out advice elsewhere, says kelly lewis, cfp at john g. ullman &amp; associates. load up your 401(k) or ira.as your earnings start to ramp up, its the best time to solidify the savings habit and begin making smart investments that can grow faster than inflation and provide for long-term growth, says kimberly foss, cfp, founder and president of empyrion wealth management. and dont be afraid to invest aggressively, putting the lions share of your money in stocks early on you still have 30-40 years to recover from any mistakes or drops in the market.think about real estate. more single women than ever are buying homes. if that appeals, nows a good time. if you buy in your 30s, you can be mortgage-free by the time you retire. just dont do it if you think youll be moving in a 5-year time period.in your 40sremind yourself that no one is going to give you a retirement loan. in this decade, you may be feeling squeezed on both sides from aging parents and college-bound kids in need of financial and emotional support, but you should continue to prioritize your own savings goals. dont slow down! woodruff cautions.decide whether you need life insurance. as a single woman, you may hear that its not necessary to have life insurance because you have no dependents. however this is not necessarily true, lewis says. if you have co-signers on student loans, a mortgage, an auto-loan, or even just dont want the burden of funeral costs to fall on loved ones, life insurance is essential. and if you have kids, its a must.build your backup plans. its particularly important for single women to have people in their corner to take care of them if they cant take care of themselves. name durable powers of attorney for your healthcare and finances who can make medical and money decisions on your behalf if youre unable.consider short-term or long-term disability options. disability insurance is more important for singles than just about anyone. as a single woman of any working age, if you are unable to work for a period of time, you have no other second income to rely on, lewis notes.in your 50stake advantage of catch-up contributions. in this decade (and the one that follows), youll be eligible to kick in an additional $6,000 to your 401(k), woodruff says. put away as much extra cash as you can.get on a 10-year plan to total debt freedom. you want to retire completely debt free. make sure your mortgage has been refinanced to the lowest rate possible, and if you have a relatively new 30-year mortgage, look at paying it off in 15, says david bach, co-founder of ae wealth management. if you still have any student loans (for you or your kids), nows the time to pay those off, too.start thinking more seriously about end-of-life decisions. make sure the beneficiaries on your will are up-to-date, particularly if you got divorced in the last few years. you also need to think seriously about investing in long term care insurance that can help out with medical expenses, bach says.clean up all old retirement accounts. if youve worked at several different companies, you may have left various retirement accounts sitting unattended. its time to roll those over into a current plan  a financial planner can help you do that, bach says.in your 60sdont be afraid to downsize. look to be near friends and family, for emotional reasons as much as anything else, woodruff suggests. a small apartment near loved ones can be much more comfortable than a large home where youll be more isolated.make sure all estate plan documents are in order. this includes your will, power of attorney, health care directive, and life insurance. without the directions in these documents, the decisions would be made through statutory law on your behalf, whether or not thats what you wanted, lewis says.seriously run a calculation of how much longer you want to work. do you have a career that will allow you to work part-time for the rest of your life? when do you want to stop? bach asks. you may also want to start thinking about mentoring someone at work and passing on some of your wisdom and experience.with kathryn tuggleget more saving and spending hackshow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 daysneed to save money fast? try a spending banwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

whether traveling during your everyday commute, racing through the airport to catch a flight or on vacation either here or abroad, theres one thing thats a sure bet: youll encounter a starbucks along the way. knowing that there are healthier options available is a great strategy for times when youre out of your routine (say, a business trip) or on days when you got a late start and couldnt pack breakfast or lunch. no matter where or when hunger strikes, a starbucks meal can come to the rescue.best starbucks breakfastsclassic oatmeal. with 4 grams of fiber and 5 grams of protein, this pick  made with steel cut oats  packs a lot of whole grain goodness. when eating grains, whole grains are the best choice because they lower your risk of heart disease, type 2 diabetes and stroke, and they help with weight management. you may see the calories listed at 160, but note that this doesnt include the optional dried fruit, nut medley or brown sugar. the nuts bring more flavor and crunch to the chewy oats  an ideal touch, that also adds vitamins, minerals, and healthy, plant-based fats. since the dried fruit adds a hint of sweetness, see if you can get by without the sugar packet, or sprinkle lightly.spinach, feta &amp; cage free egg white breakfast wrap. this flavorful breakfast sandwich is a good grab-and-go option that packs 19 grams of protein and 6 g of fiber. the combo of egg-based protein plus a fiber-rich food has been shown to increase fullness and reduce calorie intake later in the day when compared to eating a lower protein and fiber breakfast cereal. when you know you need a meal thats going to last, this one will go the distance. one thing to keep in mind: like many restaurant and fast casual meals, this breakfast is higher in sodium than a home cooked meal. it has 830 mg of sodium more than id normally suggest. be sure to eat plenty of fruits and veggies to keep potassium levels up. this mineral helps flush out the sodium in your diet. drinking plenty of water will help, too.egg white &amp; red pepper sous vide egg bites. if youre watching your carb intake, these egg bites are a good choice. they have just 13 g of carbohydrate for the pair. having them with the packaged avocado spread is a tasty way to go that also brings a lot of nutrition. youll get 4 grams of fiber in the spread, plus heart-healthy monounsaturated fat, vitamins, minerals and other plant health-promoters. another cool avocado fact: research shows that adding avocado to a meal leads to increased fullness and less hunger later on.best starbucks luncheslentils &amp; vegetable protein bowl with brown rice. for those looking to fill up on a fiber-rich, plant-based lunch, this meets the mark. with lentils, brown rice, butternut squash, broccoli and kale, youll be getting plenty of nutrition in this vegan bowl. the filling dish is an ideal mid-day meal when youre in for a long afternoon. another plus: pulses, like lentils, are known to be nutritional powerhouses. in addition to protein and fiber, lentils are a good source of iron. since iron carries oxygen to your cells, low iron stores can cause fatigue. including lentils in your diet helps keep your iron stores (and energy levels) up.chicken &amp; quinoa protein bowl. if youre looking for a lower-calorie starbucks lunch, have this protein-packed bowl. the 450-calorie meal has flavorful fillings, which include roasted corn, black beans, chicken and quinoa to keep your belly happy without weighing you down. however, note that this lunch has more than 1,000 mg of sodium. thats high, though not entirely out of line with other fast-casual and restaurant fare. skipping the dressing will lower the sodium a bit. studies confirm that most of the sodium in our diet is added outside the home so balance out your sodium intake by dining in more often than you dine out.pb&amp;j protein box. you may be surprised to see pb&amp;j made the cut but its a meal that can make good nutritious sense. peanuts and peanut butter are high in monounsaturated fats  the same type that avocados and extra-virgin olive oil are known for. and though it seems counter-intuitive given that nuts are high in calories and fat, people who report frequent nut intake have less weight gain and are at a lower risk of becoming overweight or obese than people who eat nuts less often. here, the classic sandwich is served with a side of fruit and veggies to bump up the fiber (as well as other nutrients), along with a cheese stick to give protein levels a boost. the small portion of chocolate-covered raisins is a reasonable way to satisfy a sweet tooth.best starbucks beveragesyou cant go wrong with plain, unsweetened coffee or tea. iced or hot, these sips provide antioxidants along with the caffeine boost. though many associate tea with health benefits, coffee has been linked to several of its own: drinking coffee is associated with a lower risk of certain cancers, and may protect against parkinsons disease and type 2 diabetes. plus, the caffeine in both beverages helps you stay focused and alert.where these beverages go wrong is in the add-ins. more on this in a moment, but to keep your sips on the healthy side, have them plain or with 2% or nonfat milk, coconut milk or almond milk. skip the sweetener if you can, or use a light touch. here are a few options that are in line with this advice:caffe mistonitro cold brewpassion tango herbal teaorganic jade citrus mint brewed teaand then a few things to steer clear ofcertainly, the bakery case is a landmine of sugary, belt-busing fare. its not just that these goodies have loads of calories and sugar; theyre also made primarily of refined grains (read: white flour), which means theyre an energy slump waiting to happen.reduced-fat cinnamon swirl coffee cake. it might taste good going down, but the 41 grams of sugar it contains (thats 10 teaspoons!) in lieu of a few grams of fat make this a poor choice. it has cake in the name for a reason.lemon chiffon yogurt. this is a case of yogurt gone horribly wrong. the same amount of plain, whole milk greek yogurt has about 200 calories and 8 grams of sugar. thanks to the lemony mixture, youll get an extra 140 calories and 27 grams of sugar, which amounts to almost 7 teaspoons of added sugar. truthfully, none of the yogurt parfaits are terrific in my book. you can usually find siggis vanilla yogurt at starbucks so if youre in the mood for yogurt, its an option that will spare you a sugar crash.horchata almondmilk crme frappuccino. if the above example is a case of yogurt gone wrong, this drink takes almond milk to the next level of wrongness. plain, unsweetened almond milk has just 30 calories a cup. the typical 16-ounce grande serving of this drink has 330 calories. it also has more than 12 teaspoons of sugar  twice the daily limit for women, and three teaspoons more than the daily cap for men. skipping the whip brings the sugar down a tad, but not enough. dont be fooled. frappuccino drinks are more like milkshakes than coffee  fine if youre treating yourself to dessert, but probably not okay if its a daily pick-me-up.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

no one likes being cut off, bumped into or the recipient of a terse email. yet it happens all the time  both to us and if you think hard enough, you can probably think of something you did or said not too long ago that someone else may have seen as not so nice.therein lies the problem, explains michael p. leiter, phd, professor of organizational psychology at deakin university in geelong, australia. rudeness happens when someone behaves in a way that doesnt align with the way someone else might think is appropriate or civil, he says. you cant really assume that the people youre encountering share your core values about how people should get along.that applies whether youre at work, on a crowded train platform or elsewhere. and that means a lot of rudeness can be and tends to be unintentional, leiter adds. it comes from cluelessness, being inconsiderate, not thinking it through, or simply not imagining that somebody could be offended by something.so why is it that seemingly innocuous, simple acts of rudeness can very quickly set us off or put a damper on the day? because rudeness (incivility as psychologists sometimes call it) is anything but innocuous.such behavior instigates a self-perpetuating cycle of negative behavior, hampering our productivity, our happiness and our health along the way.rudeness begets rudeness and hurts productivityincivility is a virus, christine porath, phd, associate professor at the mcdonough school of business at georgetown university and author of mastering civility: a manifesto for the workplace, says. you touch it and unfortunately we often dont realize we pass it on to others.poraths research shows that when people experience more rudeness, they are less motivated, they actually cut back on the amount of effort they put into a certain task, and they are far more likely to leave an organization compared with organizations where there is less rudeness. other research shows as incivility between customers and workers increased with an organization, sales performance dropped and employee absenteeism increased.more experiments from porath and her colleagues show that even witnessing rudeness can hurt performance scores when it comes to routine tasks (for this study the participants unscrambled purposely scrambled words) and creative tasks (the participants had to come up with an idea for how to use a brick, a brainstorming task frequently used by psychologists to study creativity).rude actions tend to trigger rude responses, creating a big negative spiral and a negative culture, porath explains.thats not to say rudeness necessarily triggers aggression  as in most of the time a coworker talking over you in a meeting wont necessarily lead to a fist fight. but people do tend to reciprocate in more subtle ways, porath notes. think passive aggression, she says. theyre not helpful. they may insult each other back and forth. they may not share information with that person in the future  or not work as hard.rudeness is bad for our health and wellbeingrudeness is a stressor, leiter adds. it affects our health and wellbeing because, he says, emotionally, its upsetting.we tend to ruminate about rude interactions  maybe talking about it with our friends, thinking about it later in the day, or letting it wake us up in the middle of the night. thats because such interactions are an attack on a part of our identity, leiter explains. it tells us youre not important enough to be treated better, he says  youre not really a legitimate person.and finally rudeness is so toxic because of that negative spiral. the aftermath of a rude encounter driving to work or on an elevator might get brought to work. we take it out on others, porath says. were frustrated, were short with people, we dont acknowledge them, we dont listen to them or pay attention.and most all of us can likely relate to the fact that leaving the office in a bad mood makes it that much tougher to come home in a good one. experimental studies, too, have documented this contagious effect of rude behavior.breaking the cycle of rudeness starts with just being nicerso what can you do to avoid and stop the rudeness virus? heres what the experts suggest:1. acknowledge people and express appreciationsay hello, thank you, and all the other niceties you know. the act of kindness itself start changing the tenor of things, leiter says. survey data his research group collected have shown that the biggest predictor of how often people are rude to you is actually often you are rude to other people.2. dont let rude behavior festerwhen someone does something rude and you internalize it, negativity festers, which can lead to resentment, leiter explains. particularly when its someone you have a relationship with and see over and over again  family members, friends, or colleagues  it helps to express how you feel about someones behavior toward you, he says. its more risky, but its a powerful thing to do.susan krauss whitbourne, phd, professor emerita of psychological and brain sciences at the university of massachusetts amherst, suggests: use statements with i, like i felt this say when this happened or im not sure if youre aware how i felt when.think of it as re-negotiating a better way of getting along, she says.3. avoid rude peopleyou cant necessarily skip all interactions with a rude desk mate at the office. but limit it when you can, leiter says. skip the happy hour or long lunch if you know youre going to leave upset because of a certain individual.4. think about how your behavior will sit with othersbe wary of how other people might react to your behavior, says trevor foulk, phd, assistant professor of management and organization at the robert h. smith school of business at university of maryland. most interactions are ambiguous in terms of meaning, he says. we know what we mean, but were relying on the target to infer the meaning we want.(that applies especially to emails and text messages, too, foulk says.)let the niceness be contagious instead of rudeness.5. apologize if you do find yourself being rudeif and when you do find yourself doing something rude, apologize, krauss whitbourne says. apologies and seeking forgiveness are very important for mental health.and use it as an opportunity to learn how to be nicer in the future, she adds. let the niceness be contagious instead of rudeness.6. believe in decencyif you go around thinking everyones out to get you, youre always going to be on the defensive and rudeness will automatically follow, krauss whitbourne says. the thought leads to the emotion, which leads to the behavior, she explains.instead, start with the assumption that people have good intentions. it may sound like the polyanna-view, but youll start approaching interactions (with strangers and likely with those you do know) in a much more positive way. one way to do it, krauss whitbourne says: attribute bad behavior maybe not to the person, but to the situation.we tend to forgive our own bad behavior easily or blame it on being rushed, stressed, or whatever  yet we tend not to cut others so much slack, she says.if you go around thinking everyones out to get you, youre always going to be on the defensive and rudeness will automatically follow.7. smile!smile more, krauss whitbourne says. smiles  genuine smiles  go a long way to counteracting rudeness, krauss whitbourne adds.more how to guideshow to complain constructively (and get results)how to be a better bosshow to be a better public speakerhow to tap into a zen feeling anywherehow to make friends as an adultwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

its a typical weight-loss tragedy: you ate healthy for a week, then you devoured a donut at the office party and now youre mourning your diet.instead of feeling like youve ruined your progress  or yourself, for that matter  reset and restart your mindset before you eat again. its what tiffiny hall, former biggest loser australia fitness trainer and founder of the weight-loss program the tiffxo, calls the 3-hour reset rule.the 3-hour rule is a rule i set in place to combat the all-or-nothing-diet mindset, hall tells nbc news.the 3-hour rule works because it treats each meal as a new event, she says. so instead of dwelling on the donut, work on resetting your outlook.just say, im human, ive slipped up, but in three hours time  and set your alarm  theres a fresh day, fresh start, hall says.the trainer says the 3-hour rule gave her the flexibility she needed to lose 65 pounds after giving birth to her son.i wanted to do it with self love and i didnt want to punish myself and hate it, so i employed the 3-hour rule and i lost [65 lbs] in eight months slowly, gently, healthily, she recalls.before snacking, ask am i hungry or am i hurting?hall says her experience as a trainer on the biggest loser australia showed her how people often battle emotional eating.a big part of learning to eat healthy means incorporating high-calorie foods into your diet without overdoing it, she says.you should work treats into your meal plan, i do encourage that, she says. and a treat will never make a difference to your progress, but a binge will.but before you reach for that donut or pizza slice, ask yourself: am i hungry or am i hurting? its a simple question hall says can help you assess how your mood might be affecting your hunger.just asking yourself that question can short circuit the behavior, she says.if your answer is i think im hurting, then she advises taking steps to heal the pain without food.write down your top 10 ways to give yourself self care, says hall. the list should include activities that will help distract you from your cravings. for some people, that might be painting or knitting, for others, it might mean playing sports or exercising, she says. hall says she distracts herself from food by playing the piano or relaxing in an epsom salt bath.i feel better and it stops pantry raiding, and it helps control your weight, says hall.three hours, three meals, three snacksaccording to the fitness trainer, the 3-hour rule will help you regulate your hunger so you are less likely to binge. the active personal trainer followed a general rule of thumb: eat three balanced meals and three smaller healthy snacks throughout the day. proteins and healthy fats are essential, hall says, because they keep you feeling full.every three hours, have something to sustain your blood-sugar levels and your brain to make sure you are performing at a high level, whether thats academic or corporate or physical, she says.track your progress to stay motivatedto keep your progress on track, the instructor suggests putting a chart on your fridge. every time you have a healthy meal, put a gold star sticker on the chart. when you indulge in a high-calorie snack, she says, add a different sticker  like a smiley face, for example.hall says it will show you that those minor binges arent that big a deal after all.two little slip ups over seven days  its not going to make a difference, and you start to have a perspective of a bigger picture, hall says.how to use the 3-hour reset ruleevery three hours, reset and reassess. if you indulged in something you regret, instead of dwelling on it, focus on your goals. in three hours, when you eat again, reset and restart your mindset.before snacking, ask yourself am i hungry or am i hurting?. before you reach for that high calorie snack, ask yourself if youre actually hungry, or if your mood is causing cravings. this is a good way to asses how your emotions are affecting your hunger.eat three balanced meals and some healthy snacks each day. the 3-hour rule will help you regulate your hunger so you are less likely to binge. if you are active, a general rule of thumb is to eat three balanced meals and some smaller, healthy snacks throughout the day. proteins and healthy fats are essential to keeping you feeling full.track your progress to stay motivated. put a chart on your fridge. every time you eat something healthy, add a gold star sticker. on the rarer occasions you eat something high in calories, add a different sticker, like a smiley face. this will show you in a visual way how those minor slip ups really dont make a dent in your progress.more weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

as the number of people diagnosed with mental health issues such as depression rises to new highs, the need for medical services to treat them is growing too. approximately 56 percent of american adults with a mental illness do not receive treatment. theres also evidence of a dire lack of treatment among teens, with the cdc reporting that the suicide rate for teens is skyrocketing.why arent people getting the help they need? the answer is complicated. on one hand theres the lingering stigma around mental illness that may hinder people from seeking care (a problem that campaigns like mental health awareness month aim to solve), but theres also the fact that our health care system has yet to treat mental health as comprehensively as it does physical health. theres no such thing as an insurance-covered annual mental health exam for instance, and therapists who do accept insurance are often working twice as hard just to get reimbursed by providers.having been through the ringer trying to not only find a therapist who accepts my insurance, but is also taking new clients, id just about given up on my personal quest for affordable services. fortunately, after talking with a number of experts in the field, ive learned there a multiple ways to get the care i need without going broke in the process.seek in-network first  if you dont have healthcare, turn to federally qualified health centers\"people with health insurance should begin their journey to wellness on their health plans website. health plans may manage their mental health benefits internally, or outsource them to a vendor. the health plan or vendor will specify the mental healthcare providers that are covered, any associated costs, and any benefit limitations,\" says dr. adam c. powell, president of payer+provider syndicate. \"in many cases, health plans are required to offer comparable coverage for mental and physical healthcare coverage by the paul wellstone and pete domenici mental health parity and addiction equity act (mhpaea). when mhpaea applies, the financial requirements, quantitative treatment limitations, and non-quantitative treatment limitations applied to mental health benefits may not differ from those that are applied to physical health benefits.\"if insurance is not obtainable, powell adds, you may seek help at a local social services agency, a student health center (if a student) or a federally qualified health center (aka, community-based healthcare centers that are government funded).sonya veytsman, lcsw, suggests reaching out to the national alliance on mental health (nami). \"they have a helpline that offers free help 24/7. all you need to do is text nami to 741741.\"avoid visiting the er if possible, not only because youll likely get stuck with a huge bill, but because the er, in powells estimation, \"is not designed to work with people to improve their mental health over time. care should only be sought at an emergency department in the event of an urgent crisis.\"private therapists will often work on a sliding scale  as low as $10/hourrecently i found a few therapists who are taking new clients but not insurance. i was discouraged by their steep hourly rates and didnt press, but i will now because often theyll adjust their fee to match your financial resources.[we often] just ask the patient how much they can afford, and try our best to make it work, says dr. laura chackes, founder of the center for mindfulness &amp; cbt in st. louis, missouri. most of our therapists who do a sliding scale will slide down from $120 to about $60 per session. i am bringing on an intern this fall who will be able to see patients at an even lower rate ranging from $10-$50 per hour.kailee place, an lpc with the private practice shifting tides therapeutic solutions adds that she doesnt take insurance, but does make room for lower cost sessions within my practice. i strongly believe people should get the care they want to get, so if i seem like the best fit for someone, i am [usually] 100 percent willing to work with them regarding their financial needs.see if youre eligible for medicaid for free therapyif you dont have insurance coverage, check to see if you qualify for medicaid (your income is the determining factor).if a person does not have commercial insurance but has medical assistance (medicaid), then they need to look for someone who is in their network, says dr. jesse matthews, a licensed psychologist.most providers who take medicaid work at clinics or community mental health centers. sometimes these are affiliated with universities and are used as training sites for graduate students. if a person has medicaid, they should be able to access mental health care free of charge.your local training institutes may provide free sessions for up to two yearsdr. fran walfish, a psychotherapist, suggests contacting your local psychoanalytic training institute.\"they generally require the patient to commit to three to five times a week psychoanalytic therapy sessions over a period of at least one to two years in duration in exchange for free therapy,\" she tells nbc news better. \"the patient is assured to receive treatment from the same singular qualified m.d. who is getting supervision and advanced specific training in intensive long-term treatment.\"university hospitals are often eager to put students to work for a low fee  so are some non-profitsanother alternative is to reach out to your closest teaching hospital that offers training programs to interns and residents, adds dr. walfish. most qualified training hospitals have a department of psychiatry and outpatient psychology program that offers low-fee sliding scale psychotherapy. finally, there are several private and state-funded non-profit agencies that offer very good quality psychotherapy on a sliding scale with fees set based on the individuals prior income tax returns.check out open path psychotherapy collectiveopen path psychotherapy collective is a nonprofit that matches middle- and lower-income people (and families) with affordable mental health services and education. many therapists are working with them to help inform and provide for those in need, among them vinodha joly, lmft.joly says she was happy to find a nonprofit that was aligned with her own personal values. \"my experience with open path has been positive from the get-go as their mission is clearly to make mental health more affordable, without exploiting therapists who are willing to offer their services, joly explains. open path connects patients with mental health professionals with rates that range from $30 to $50 per hour.dont give up  the resources are out there, possibly on your smartphoneexperts concur that it make take some time and effort to find a mental health provider, but your search will likely pay off. in the interim, you might want to turn to your smartphone.tele-mental health in all forms has become a huge resource and there are great resources online offered by large health systems, says harry nelson, managing partner of nelson hardiman, head of the behavioral health association of providers and co-author of from obamacare to trumpcare: why you should care. the challenge there is that you need to be licensed in the state where the patient lives, but that said, weve seen a flourishing growth in treatment of all mental health by telemedicine and i expect it to grow exponentially. reach out to your local hospital system to ask if they offer these services.if youre really hurting, check into a clinic and/or call for helpif youre desperately in need of immediate mental health services, visit a community mental health clinic. as matthews points out, they often offer low-cost treatment through use of interns or because they receive supplemental funding from places like the united way.you should also contact the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk if youre in danger of self-harm. its free, open 24/7 and totally confidential.more mental health helphow defusing my thoughts helped me claw my way back from debilitating anxiety7 steps for getting through a panic attackhow to worry betterwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

you slip into a tank top for the first time this year and notice your triceps could use a tone up. or perhaps its the leg-baring shorts or the thought of going shirtless at the beach that has you running to the weight room for the first time since january.we know its not possible to spot reduce in specific areas  no amount of squats will instantly lift your rear if you arent getting the recommended amount of cardiovascular exercise and decreasing your overall body fat. but as a part of a well-rounded fitness routine, there are certain exercises that hit those hard-to-tone areas, strengthening muscles and giving you a tighter look.theres no such thing as a magic set. you cant perform these exercises on monday and go back to the gym on sunday. its about consistency, says ackeem emmons, personal trainer and aaptiv strength and running coach. that being said, he does have go-to exercises for targeting those pesky trouble spots that many people have a hard time with.everybody wants the same thing. sculpted legs and glutes, a strong core and defined arms, says emmons. these five different movements for five different body parts will get you ready for the summer.target zone: absexercise: mountain climbers with glidersequipment: ab gliders, socks or paper plates\"your core is your abs, obliques and your lower back. its the trunk of your body,\" says emmons. \"you see people at the gym performing a thousand crunches, but to get a strong core you need work on stabilization. this exercise incorporates stability, in addition to strength, and recruits muscles that are often ignored. if you dont have access to gliders, you can use your socks or paper plates on a slippery surface. place your feet on the gliders and hold a plank position, shoulders stacked over wrists. (if you are completely new to planks, simply hold for 30 seconds.) then alternate between pulling your right knee to right elbow, and left knee to left elbow.variations:intermediate progression: pick up the pace and complete as many mountain climbers as you can in 30 seconds.advanced progression: turn it into a bear plank by pulling both knees towards your elbows at the same time. you can also pull both knees around to the right and both knees around to the left to target the obliques. or try doing mini circles away from each other with each foot (while in a plank position).target zone: tricepsexercise: plank to push upequipment: soft surface or yoga mat\"the secret to great arms are the triceps,\" says emmons. \"the best move for triceps are push-ups. alot of people cant do a push-up, but this move will get you there,\" he says. this exercise strengthens and sculpts the triceps, while also engaging the core and working the biceps. \"this looks simple, but it can be very difficult,\" says emmons. \"if you dont work out that often, begin on your knees.\" come down into a forearm plank on your elbows; from this position, push up into a high plank position, then lower yourself back down into a forearm plank. be sure to alternate between the left and the right hand when pushing up and lowering back down.variations:intermediate progression: come up to your toes and perform exercise from a full plank position. you can also add a 30-second plank hold to the end of the exercise.advanced progression: once youve mastered the first two progressions, move on to full push-ups, keeping your arms close to the body and fulling extending through the triceps on the way up.target zone: glutesexercise: elevated glute bridgeequipment: bench or elevated platform\"this exercise strengthens your lower back, and sculpts the glutes and hamstrings, says emmons. lay down on your back facing an elevated platform, which could be a bench at the gym or your couch at home, and place both feet on the platform. with your hands flat on the ground, squeeze the glutes upward creating a straight line from your neck to your knees, lower to the starting position, and repeat. \"i like to do the glute bridges for time instead of numbers of reps,\" says emmons. \"aim for 30 seconds on, 30 seconds rest.\"variations:intermediate progression: transition to a single leg glute bridge by keeping one foot on the elevated platform and raising the other straight up towards the ceiling. perform 30-seconds of glute bridges keeping one leg in the air; repeat on other leg.advanced progression: once you have mastered the other two variations, add weight by placing a dumbbell across your hips.target zone: shouldersexercise: lateral raises and front raisesequipment: two, 5-10 pound dumbbells\"im going to take 10-pound dumbbells and make it one of the most difficult exercises youve ever done,\" says emmons. \"theres three parts to working your shoulder: your front, medial and rear delts. this move targets all three, building aesthetic and strength. stand up tall and squeeze your glutes, with dumbbells at your sides. beginners will want to start with 3-5 pound dumbbells. keeping your arms straight, perform lateral raises by lifting your arms out to your sides creating a \"t\" shape; slowly lower back to the starting position, repeat for 10 reps. to transition to front raises, keep your arms straight and lift the dumbbells out in front of you.variations:intermediate progression: as you become stronger, increase the weight of your dumbbells.advanced progression: add a a set of overhead shoulder presses to the routine. continue to increase weight.target zone: legsexercise: bulgarian split squatequipment: bench or elevated platform; two 20-30 pound dumbbellspeople tend to default to regular squats and lunges when they want to tone their lower body, says emmons, but his go-to move is a squat variation that combines both to target the quads, hamstrings and glutes. to perform this exercise, youll need an elevated platform, which could be a bench at the gym or your couch at home. take one leg and place it on the elevated platform, take a big step out and find your balance, and then sync into a lunge and return to standing. complete 10 reps on one side; switch legs and repeat.variations:intermediate progression: grab a pair of 10-20 pound dumbbells and hold them at your side while completing the exercise.advanced progression: once you have mastered the first two variations, you can add a plyometric movement. instead of standing to the top position, add a hop, bringing the front leg off of the ground, and then returning to the low lunge position.try these fitness routines10 core exercises that are better for your back (and body) than crunches5 exercises you can perform anywhere, anytimea 10-minute cardio workout you can do at home5 exercises that will strengthen your back and reduce pain8 exercises trainers never do (and what to do instead)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if youre restless in your career, but worried you dont have what it takes to land something different, its time for an adjustment  in your thinking. you may not realize it, but you probably already have impressive skills that will translate well in other industries. if youre considering reinventing your career in 2018, heres a look at 10 tout-able talents that are impressive across the board.1. ability to solve a problemsome people know how to identify problems and find ways to solve those problems, and others dont, explains kara goldin, ceo of hint flavored water, who left a career in e-commerce at aol to found her company. problem solvers know how to dig in for answers and they dont come up for air until they find them, goldin says. many companies today are looking for individuals who can either solve problems for a product that currently exists, or who can develop new products that solve problems.2. desire to learnit says a lot to me when i see that people are open to learning about another industry, goldin says. if someone has spent time shadowing or interning, i can tell they are committed to making a switch, even if they havent spent years working in the field. whenever you have an opportunity to highlight your willingness to jump in and immerse yourself in your new industry, take it, she says. its the best way to show that youre going to see this through, that youre not just trying on a new hat.3. passionsometimes, its your hunger for a role or a product that will set you apart, goldin says. when people walk in my door and tell me how much they love my product, that counts for a lot. i am a big believer that passion trumps experience, she explains. because passion is often what gives people the motivation to roll up their sleeves and do what it takes to learn, its one of the best qualities you can show a hiring manager during an interview.4. adaptabilityshow me you can swim in any kind of water, says andrew solomon, an executive recruiter and co-founder of pivot fitness in new jersey. when i know people can thrive in situations where theyre uncomfortable or not prepared, i know theyre going to be able to make that transition.employees looking to move into different industries need to show adaptability to a variety of cultures, says elaine varelas, managing partner at human resources consultancy keystone partners. [someone] with prior experience and knowledge in a variety of industries can not only appeal as top talent, but also help the company spot future issues, she says.5. being receptive to feedback from customersindividuals who know how to engage with their consumers will always have a leg up, because you cant build a successful product or a company in a vacuum, explains georgina gooley, an executive who left her career at an advertising agency to found billie, a female-first shave and body brand. you have to be receptive to constant consumer feedback, because we live in an ever-changing world. your company and products need to evolve just as your customer does. people who can listen to feedback and make changes based on that feedback are going to be positioned as strong candidates.6. being curious\"when i interview someone, i want to know that theyre going to ask questions, and that they have an innate curiosity to figure out why some things work and why some things dont, gooley says. theres science in that, but also a little bit of magic. some people may be afraid of asking questions out of a fear that they will look uninformed, but most worthwhile projects and roles have a level of complexity of things that need to be explored, says autumn manning, ceo and co-founder of youearnedit, an austin, texas- based human resources technology company.7. project management skillsproject management involves many different elements: developing timelines, coordinating resources, setting goals and evaluating risk. hiring managers want to know theyre dealing with someone who not only understands the tasks, but who also sets aggressive timelines and goals, and who can see ahead of any risk and mitigate it, manning explains. in an interview, dont be afraid to walk a hiring manager through a project you managed, and discuss your roadblocks and successes.when i interview someone, i want to know that theyre going to ask questions, and that they have an innate curiosity to figure out why some things work and why some things dont.8. written communication skillsin almost every position, youll be required to establish a good cadence and pattern of communication via the written word, managing says. many people forget that communication can make or break your effectiveness in a management role, whether youre managing projects or people, she says. hiring managers will want to know that you can clearly and effectively outline goals, and that your emails will leave no questions as to your meaning.9. intuition: ability to read between the linesreading between the lines involves listening, yes, but its more about listening to how and when someone says something, solomon says. you have to understand where the person is coming from, he says. did a client ask for a major change when they were angry? that might not be something they want to stick by the next day. try to determine what your intuition is telling you  over time, youll learn to rely on it, and it will give you a leg up in all your communications, he explains.10. ability to get resultsfinally, when you can deliver results, youll be looked at as a success no matter what industry youre in, solomon says. when i see a strong track record, i know that this person has the capability to become successful. i know that he or she is willing to put in the time, do the work, and that with the right training, they could really be an asset.with kathryn tuggleget more career advice4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)a better way to deal with those constant interruptionswant to do a better job? this expert says you should work less4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream jobwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if youre one of millions of americans struggling to pay off loans, the debt snowflake method can help you save big by saving small.student loan hero writer kat tretina says she used the method to pay off $35,000 in student loans four years early.the debt snowflake focuses on very, very small amounts, tretina tells nbc news better. like a dollar or two even at a time that will help you pay off your debt a lot faster.while strategies like the wealth snowball can be effective for paying off debt, they require you to pay more than what is owed on your minimum monthly balance, and that can be expensive, tretina says.but with the snowflake method, you apply small savings directly to your debt every day, which adds up over time, she says.for example, lets say you have a credit card balance of $5,000 with an apr of 15 percent and your minimum payment is $150. it will take you over three and a half years to pay if off, and $1,509 will go to interest.but if you start saving just $5 a week grocery shopping with coupons and you applied that extra $20 a month to paying off your credit card, your repayment would take about 3 years and you would pay only $1,272 in interest.with that you could actually save a significant amount of money, explains tretina.tretina stresses that the snowflake method is not a replacement to other strategies like the wealth snowball  its just a useful way to help you find extra money. how you use the savings to pay off your loans is up to you, she says.just a tiny bit of extra savings can actually have a huge payoff, she says.this debt calculator can help you see how adding small amounts to your monthly payment can pay off your loans faster.small ways you can saveto save in small ways, tretina ditched cable and money-eating subscriptions like netflix and amazon.the money i spent on cable, i automatically applied that to my loans, she says.she also used coupons when she went grocery shopping and cooked most of her meals at home, which allows her to add about $60 to her monthly payments.i started doing batch cooking on the weekends, she says. so that way i would have my lunch and dinner for the week, and wouldnt have to worry about spending more money on groceries. so that freed up an extra $15 a week that i would apply to my loans.tretina also made extra money through side hustles like pet sitting and online surveys that paid $5 per survey.none of them were bringing in tons of money a month, but even those little bits helped me pay off those loans so far ahead of schedule, she says.as soon as you save it, repay itat the end of each day, tretina would calculate the money she saved and apply that amount directly to repaying her loans.for example, if she calculated saving $4 on groceries on a particular day, she would transfer $4 from her online bank account towards her loan payment.my policy was i wanted to put that money towards the debt as soon as i got it so that way i wouldnt be tempted to find another use for it, she explains.stay motivated by tracking your paymentswhen you are saving tiny amounts each day, it can be hard to see their impact. to keep yourself motivated, you can track the amount of money youve paid off in a spreadsheet, for example, or anything that works for you.tretina kept herself motivated by pinning a large picture of a thermometer to her wall. every time she paid off $50 worth of loans, she would shade in a section.just seeing that as things went by helped keep me motivated, she says.invest your savingsnow that tretina has paid off her debt, she invests her savings in mutual funds and etfs through online investment management tools like betterment. the writer says repaying her loans with the debt snowflake method changed her attitude about money.i used to be a lot more open to debt  like thinking of debt as good debt, especially with education loans, tretina says.now im so debt adverse, tretina says. it just makes me feel like i have more freedom.how to pay off your debts using the debt snowflake approachsmall amounts add up: with the debt snowflake method, you apply small savings directly to your debt every day, which adds up over time. cutting back on expensive subscriptions, using coupons, and batch cooking your meals all examples of how you can cut back in small ways.repay it as soon as you save it. calculate the amount of money you saved each day and apply it directly from an online savings account to your debt.implement a tracking system. it can be difficult to see the impact of small, incremental savings. tracking the amount you save each day in a spread sheet can help you visualize the amount youve saved and keep you motivated.invest what youve saved. once youve paid off your debt, contribute your savings to an investment tool like an ira that will help you increase your wealth.more savings hacksthe one move you can make to improve your wealth and healthhow a do-not-buy list can save you hundreds of dollars13 easy ways to save moneyhow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

scared of opening your loan statement because of how much interest has accumulated? cant stop wondering what not-so-great reports from wall street mean for your 401k?money problems are stressful, especially when theres not enough of it  or you fear there wont be enough of it in the future.it creates this feeling of helplessness and hopelessness, nancy molitor, phd, a clinical psychologist and assistant professor of psychiatry and behavioral health at northwestern university feinberg school of medicine, tells nbc news better. but one of the absolute worst things you can do if you find yourself in this type of situation is ignore the problem, she adds  no matter whats causing it.its kind of like that pile of laundry in your closet. its way easier to pretend its not there, but doing so means its only going to get bigger by the time you need to deal with it, she says.plus, money stress can do a lot of damage to your health. a new, large dataset that looked at how the recession of the late aughts affected our bodies may provide some of the strongest evidence yet.the study, published earlier this year in the proceedings of the national academy of sciences, analyzed changes in heart health in a group of 4,600 individuals from before, during, and after the recent financial crisis. (the data was collected for the multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis [mesa] between 2000 and 2012.)on average for everyone in the study blood pressure levels and blood glucose levels  both indicators of worsening heart health  increased during the recession. but the changes were most dramatic in two groups of individuals: those under 65 (people of working age) and those over 65 who were homeowners. both groups include those who may have more closely felt the effects of the recession.while previous data has looked at associations between people who report financial stress and health, this study is unique because it was able to capture specific markers of health risk at multiple points in time both before and after the financial crisis (telling a more complete story of how that related stress might bear on our health), explains study author teresa seeman, phd, professor of medicine &amp; epidemiology in the david geffen school of medicine at university of california los angeles.the mesa data were perfectly aligned to allow us to examine data from before the great recession and other data for the same people immediately after [it].any stress can take a toll on your health, but money stress may be particularly toxicsome stress is the kind you experience when youre in immediate physical danger, which heightens your senses and gives you extra energy to take action (and protect yourself) thanks to the stress hormones your body releases in response, molitor explains.but when there is no immediate physical danger  if the threat is perceived  those hormones that get released end up wreaking havoc on your body. more problematic still is when those stressors are chronic ones that you deal with day after day, week after week  as is the case a lot of the times when it comes to money worries, molitor says.its a kind of never-ending, seemingly endless loop of problems that gets created if the person doesnt deal with the dilemma, she says. that type of prolonged chronic stress response is associated with developing problems, like obesity, type 2 diabetes, stomach ulcers and cardiac problems.and uniquely, chronic stress about money seems to activate that [fight-or-flight response] system at a very high level, she notes. that means more hormones get released that cause more damage to the body.indeed, studies show that people with more debt tend to report having higher levels of stress and depression. other studies suggest financial insecurity (such as loss of a job), or even just worrying about becoming financially insecure, can increase the amount of physical pain people report feeling, and increases the amount of over-the-counter painkillers people report taking. other research shows people with more financial stress are more likely to have metabolic syndrome, a series of poor health markers that put you at risk for type 2 diabetes, heart disease and early death.how to not be stressed about your financesthe positive takeaway is that money problems are tangible ones  meaning you can put your finger on whats wrong, which is the first step to addressing it (and most of the time you can do something about it, molitor says).here are some the steps that molitor and others say can help:1. become involved with your financesrip open the bills and look at those bank statements. it may be bad, but at least you know how bad it is, and you eliminate that fear of the unknown.by becoming more involved and aware in everyday money management, you feel more in control, adds kathleen gurney, phd, ceo of financial psychology corporation and author of \"your money personality: what it is and how you can profit from it.\"2. download your stressmake a physical list of what youre stressed about  whatevers been ruminating in your brain in the wee hours of the night, molitor says. youll feel better just writing it down because youre downloading all of those negative thoughts, taking it out of a space where its taking up a lot of energy.3. get a second opinionget help from a trusted friend, family member, or financial planner to decide the best next steps to take. its not always about just paying off the highest debts first; its about starting to address the problems on your list that give you the most anxiety and are going to be wisest for your financial wellbeing into the future, explains delynn dolan alexander, a wealth management advisor for northwestern mutual in durham, north carolina.and its hard to make those decisions in a vacuum, she says. someone with a fresh, objective set of eyes can offer a different perspective and potentially some financial expertise you dont have yourself.4. make a plantheres one solution that helps all financial problems, molitor says  a plan. a lot of people think: if i just won the lottery, my problems would be solved. a windfall of money might help, but no matter what type of paycheck you bring home or the balance in your bank accounts is, having a roadmap for how you plan to save and spend is whats going to make you feel in control of your finances and kick the stress.whatever the plan, it should take into account your comprehensive financial situation (income, savings, debt, expenses, and spending priorities) and map out the best way to meet your goals given your circumstances, dolan alexander adds. and if youre working with a financial advisor to make that plan, be sure to tell them about all those different aspects of your finances so together you can decide the best next moves.5. follow the plan, and change it if and when its not workingthink of a financial plan as something thats living, breathing, and changeable, depending on things like the status of your job and global economy, dolan alexander says. they need to have some flexibility around changing conditions, whether [those changes] are internal or external.if youre working with a financial advisor, you should be reviewing your situation at least annually  and more often if employment changes or you accrue new debt, have concerns the economy or have other questions about your money management.6. accept whats going to be out of reach for youmaybe youre not going to be able to buy that new home youve been wanting to upsize to. maybe retiring at 65 isnt going to happen for you.once you have a plan, you need to let go of what might not be possible given your financial situation  and accept what is, molitor says. changing your parameters lets you focus on the things you can control, she says. and youll realize, im going to be ok.7. air your dirty laundryespecially when it comes to money, people tend to be embarrassed when things arent going well, and they dont talk to friends and family about it like they would other problems.use your social network, molitor says. acknowledging what youre worried about and getting support from people who care about you is really important (and can go a long way in alleviating some of that stress).8. dont ignore whats happening on wall street and beyondhearing that stocks are down and companies are folding can be unsettling. but just like you shouldnt avoid your personal financial debts and bills, you dont want to totally tune out whats going on globally.its good to be thinking at the 50,000-foot level. it puts you in a position to make better choices, molitor says.how to save more moneythe one move you can make to improve your wealth and healthhow a do-not-buy list can save you hundreds of dollars13 easy ways to save moneyhow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

when i had my first panic attack at the age of 19, i believed with absolute certainty that i was in mortal danger. i lie in my dorm room bed for what felt like hours, clutching my pounding heart and gasping for air. fifteen interminable minutes later, it was as if it had never happened, and i felt relatively normal  but that wouldnt be the last incident. i went on to have many more panic attacks, and have since been diagnosed with a panic disorder (pd). im among two to three percent of americans with pd; while 18.1 percent of americans have anxiety disorders in general  the most common mental illness. since that day, ive treated my condition both with therapy and medication.despite managing my pd, i do still suffer the occasional panic attack, but with professional guidance (a must), ive learned that there are simple things i can do to stop a panic attack in its tracks. i talked with mental health professionals to discuss why my own techniques work and what more those of us living with panic attacks can do.a panic attack comes out of nowhere and is not an anxiety attackthough we tend to use the terms panic attack and anxiety attack interchangeably, its worth noting that professionally speaking (and when referencing the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders, aka, dsm5), theres actually no such thing as an anxiety attack, per se.anxiety is an excessive persistent worrying over an imminent event that can last a while. a panic attack is a burst of intense fear that typically lasts fewer than 30 minutes, dr. carolyn rodriguez, assistant professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at stanford tells nbc news better. she says that she would never use the term anxiety attack to define any such event, noting that the term is something of a lay approach.additionally, when panic attacks are linked to a panic disorder, they come out of the blue with no apparent trigger, but anyone can experience a panic attack. if youre afraid of heights for instance, and are up on the roof, you might have a panic attack. the difference here is that in this case, the panic attack has a clear cause, whereas with a panic disorder theres no obvious culprit in the environment.know the signs of a panic attack\"often, when you dont know the physiological signs of a panic attack you may feel more scared imagining youre having a heart attack,\" says annie wright, lmft and the owner and clinical director of evergreen counseling. \"read up on the signs of a panic attack so you know what youre dealing with.\"dr. rodriguez recommends scouring the anxiety and depression association of americas website, which covers all the symptoms:palpitations, pounding heart or accelerated heart ratesweatingtrembling or shakingsensations of shortness of breath or smotheringfeelings of chokingchest pain or discomfortnausea or abdominal distressfeeling dizzy, unsteady, light-headed, or faintchills or heat sensationsparesthesia (numbness or tingling sensations)derealization (feelings of unreality) or depersonalization (being detached from oneself)fear of losing control or going crazyfear of dyingrodriguez adds that its critical to also get a physical exam to rule out other problems.write out the facts and mantras on an index card and keep it on youone of the tools that has helped me is knowing that even the most vicious panic attack cant kill me. dr. rodriguez recommends writing this fact down on an index card or in your phone to read when you feel one coming on. panic attacks are not life-threatening, she says. write this down. and maybe add the note to yourself, you have survived panic attacks before. you will survive this one.dr. prakash masand, founder of the center for psychiatric excellence, recommends writing down some positive mantras to get you out of a catastrophic thought pattern. or better yet, prepare your own. when you have the negative thoughts of gloom and doom, write down some positive and more realistic rebuttals.visualize your panic as a wavewhen you begin to feel panic sensations, instead of trying to shut them out, visualize each feeling as a wave which you are riding until it comes to rest on the shore, says dr. chuck schaeffer, a strength-focused psychologist. anticipate the wave passing and becoming less and less intense as it crests. remind yourself that just because you might feel like youll drown beneath the wave, it doesnt mean you cant swim. you might also remind yourself that the panic sensations are just passing waves on the constant, powerful ocean that is you.dr. rodriguez seconds this metaphor, adding that the waves will rise and fall, and that typically a panic attack peaks at 10 minutes and then abates.use your smartphone for distractionmy words with friends addiction is a tad out of control, but it sure comes in handy when im feeling eclipsed by panic.games like crossword puzzles and word searches [are helpful], says dr. masand. the idea is it can act as a distraction to the fear or the body symptoms of anxiety. our smartphones offer a plethora of great coping tools and this is something the majority of us already carry with us. download some games that will distract you and get your mind off of the unpleasant symptoms you are feeling. you can also download relaxing music and guided relaxation sessions.slow, deep breathing is key, but you should practice every daylong, deep breaths calm your body down, but they can be tricky to implement if youre not used to doing them. dr. schaeffer suggests that to make this practice easier, you should do it daily  anxious or not.practice full-body breathing every day, he tells nbc news better. breathe in deeply through your nose and imagine your whole body filling up with air like a balloon. next, make your mouth small like you are exhaling through a straw. slowly exhale through your mouth until you feel like all the air has completely emptied from your body. repeat this about 10 times and notice any changes in your heart rate or body tension. once you are comfortable with this kind of breathing, use it during a panic attack to slow your heart rate and calm down.carry essential oils, a plush fabric, and other multisensorial objectsone of the worst symptoms of panic attacks in my experience is that sense of unreality  like im somehow outside my body. dr. rodriguez recommends carrying items with you that can help engage your senses to help ground you.things like essential oils (try lavender or peppermint) can help bring you back into your body, she says, adding to carry a soft, fuzzy piece of fabric or even feel your own shirt. feel it, think about it, listen to it.other ways of anchoring yourself during an attack include rubbing your hands or bare feet on a surface such as a chair, couch or rug, says dr. schaeffer. put an ice cube in a paper towel and squeeze it as hard as you can in one hand for a minute until you can feel the coldness and discomfort. switch hands and repeat until you have the same sensations in your other hand.dont run away  youll only strengthen your fearsi used to avoid places and situations where id had a panic attack for fear of having another, but i found that actually going to that intimidating concert or overwhelming shopping mall, or whatever the case may be, has helped me regain freedom over the fear. dr. misti nicholson, a psychologist and the director of clinical services at austin anxiety and behavioral health services, calls this using paradox.she explains: logic and intuition tell us to run away or fight when we are in danger; however, when we avoid panic or treat it like an enemy, we make it stronger. instead, it is important to take a paradoxical and counter intuitive approach to panic. i often encourage my patients to do the opposite of what anxiety is expecting them to do. this often means moving toward what they are afraid of when anxiety is telling them to back away.find some private space to normalize with this posturewhile you shouldnt, say, bolt from the company meeting if youre having a panic attack, you may want take a break in a quiet place where you can sit.when you feel one coming on, if possible, try and go to your nearest bathroom or a private conference room, then, lower your head until its almost between your knees and focus on taking slow, deep breaths, says wright. you may be able to self-regulate and de-escalate the panic attack by doing this. if you cant go somewhere private and this happens in a meeting, pretend you have to lean down to tie your shoe or accidentally drop your phone on the ground and stay down until you feel yourself normalizing.thank your body for fighting, even if it was misledits easy to get upset at ourselves when we have a panic attack, even though theyre not our fault. rather than feeling bad about these episodes, thank your body for the hard work its done after a panic attack.be gentle and kind to yourself and dont underestimate your bodys response  respect it. think, wow my body is strong, it really got ready to fight and now we have to rest a little bit now. a positive attitude can be so helpful [in allowing you] to lean in to the anxiety instead of avoiding it. and remember, there are therapists here to help you. this is very treatable and you dont need to suffer.more mental health tipshow defusing my thoughts helped me claw my way back from debilitating anxiety7 steps for getting through a panic attackstressed? heres how to tap into a zen feeling almost instantlyhow to worry betterwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

america hasnt been part of britain for hundreds of years, yet so many of us are beyond excited to watch the royal wedding this coming weekend. just about every single media outlet (including this one!) has run endless stories in anticipation of the nuptials of prince harry and his future bride, american actress meghan markle.royal weddings are ratings platinum. according to an article on the topic in the uk edition of harpers bazaar, tv viewership for the event is expected to exceed the 23 million americans who tuned in for prince williams wedding to kate middleton in 2011. and according to an expert interviewed in the guardian, media revenues related to the wedding will likely run as high as $100m.arianne chernock, an associate professor at the department of history at boston university, who has written extensively about gender roles in historical britain, says americas obsession with british royal weddings dates back to the 19th century. americans were clamoring for details about victorias wedding dress. now, of course, that obsession is only amplified, due to the 24/7 news cycle and our fascination with celebrity culture, she says.sure, everyone loves a wedding, but why are so many americans poised to wake up at the crack of dawn (or even earlier out west) on a saturday morning to witness the union of this very attractive couple, and all of its glorious fanfare?we get to see british royalty reinvent itselfmarkle, the former \"suits\" actress, is american, divorced and bi-racial, shattering the prototype of royal brides that came before her. the fact that harry and meghan have been permitted to marry  and that their union has been widely touted both in the uk and abroad  shows just how much the monarchy, and the nation, have evolved in theory, at least, if not always in practice, says chernock. the monarchy has typically been extremely conservative on questions of marriage, divorce and the suitability of certain relationships. we saw this in 1936, when edward viii gave up the crown in order to marry the american divorcee wallis simpson. and we saw it again in the 1950s, when princess margaret forsook love in order to retain her title.we get to see a real live fairy-tale weddingamerican culture is built on the idea of princess fairy tales being the ultimate achievement in love, says veronica hefner ph.d. a communications researcher at uc davis who has studied the wedding of prince william and kate middleton. little girls watch movies, buy related products, and grow up dreaming about finding their perfect prince, says hefner. the wedding of prince harry and meghan markle may be more popular than any of the other previous royal weddings because meghan is an american and she is literally living out the american princess fairy tale.the wedding of prince harry and meghan markle may be more popular than any of the other previous royal weddings because meghan is an american and she is literally living out the american princess fairy tale.were romantic idealistshefner says american royal wedding fans are typically a mixed bag of romantic idealists and voyeurs. in my research, people who watched the royal wedding of prince william and kate in order to see a fairy-tale romance reported stronger idealistic beliefs than did those people who watched for basic entertainment, but not all.we cant resist the pomp and circumstanceemily fairchild, associate professor of sociology and gender studies at new college of florida, who has studied weddings through the gender lens, says americans are fascinated by the tremendous resources the royal family dedicates to weddings. americans, and women in particular, are taught that their wedding is the most important day of their life and that it is an occasion worth spending a lot of money on, she says. the royals are able to do what were taught to dream of, though it can rarely be achieved. the extravagant royal wedding reflects what were socialized to desire and gives people a chance to vicariously experience the ideal wedding.we find love stories comfortinghefner says, in turbulent times, people are comforted by love stories. its why people watch wedding-related television programs and go see romantic comedies, she says. the romantic ideal is attractive, and any wedding is the culmination of a romantic courtship that symbols the long-term commitment of the love.people have a parasocial relationship with these people and feel like they know them as much as they know their actual friends.we feel like weve been invited by friendsbecause so many americans feel they know markle from her work as an actress, and all of the world has known prince harry since he was born, hefner says watching the royal wedding is like watching two pals get hitched. people have a parasocial relationship with these people and feel like they know them as much as they know their actual friends, and so they want to witness an important milestone in their lives, she says.we want to bear witness to a new inclusivenessthe fact that markle is biracial is of tremendous significance to women of color, of all ages. a recent article in the new york times profiles an 11-year old british fan of markles who emigrated with her mother from africa. to her, markle represents acceptance for, as the article states, britains population remains 87 percent white, with only 3 percent of the population black, according to a 2011 census. i know how it feels to leave countries, and leave all your friends behind, the girl, named tshego, says of markle in the article. i would give her my friendship. so that shes not alone.the best reason of all to set an alarm.want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.editors note: nbc news will broadcast special live editions of today from the site of the royal wedding. a live stream will be available on today.com. in addition, our snapchat show stay tuned will release a special episode on saturday dedicated to the royal wedding. however you choose to watch, tune in! 

if you had told guenevere garrido, 32, of los angeles, ca, just a few years ago that she would find herself in new york city, popping champagne in celebration of being 100-percent debt free, she would have surely thought she was dreaming.but last month, this was real life. after making her final payment towards her student loans in july of 2016, garrido treated herself to a massage  and then entered a competition (which she won) for a trip to new york courtesy of sofi, the company that also made it possible for her to refinance, and ultimately pay off, her debt.but the journey to living her best life debt-free was anything but easy.when i was applying to schools, i was conscious of how expensive it was. i considered starting in community college, but a lot of people said to me, you got into ucla! not a lot of people can say that, so just do what you have to do. so she accepted the offer of admission, and the hefty price tag that came with it. i wasnt taught anything about money, she says. i wasnt taught how loans work; so i was in that mode where my parents want me to go to college, anything that they offered me when i applied for the fafsa, i took. i just thought, whatever it takes to go to ucla.garrido, who initially took out approximately $40,000 in student loans and signed up for a work study program to pay for college, is far from alone. roughly 70 percent of grads leave college with student debt, and over 44 million americans hold a total of $1.4 trillion in student loan debt. according to data from the federal reserves 2016 survey of consumer finances, people under the age of 35 with student debt owe an average of $32,900. and while the standard payment plan for federal student loans puts borrowers on a 10-year track to pay off their loans, research has shown that the average bachelors degree holder takes 21 years to pay them off.everyone said, dont worry, youre going to get a good job and be able to pay them off really fast. well that wasnt the case, says garrido. i [majored] in child development so i became a pre-school teacher right after i graduated; i was only making, at most, $13 an hour. thats when garrido, who also enjoyed working with computers and was good with numbers, decided to make a career change. i applied for a corporate job and started working for quality assurance and got a raise; totally different from a teacher, but that was the way i knew to make more money.but making more money wasnt the only issue  her mindset was much to blame for her mounting debt.i thought, im never going to pay these off, because thats the norm. everybody has student loans, so i didnt think it was an urgency, says garrido. i was finding any way to minimize the amount i needed to pay for them. i heard about loan forgiveness, so i applied for the income-based payment plan and thought after a certain amount of years they would just be forgiven.but with interest, that $40k slowly crept upwards. add credit card debt and personal loans on top of that and garrido quickly found herself in a $68,000 hole. thats when then i started realizing the weight of it: 20 years is a long time, and id end up paying a lot more in interest.the turning pointgarrido knew she needed to get a hold of her finances, but it took an ah-ha moment to really convince her to make paying off her debt a priority.2013 was a really, really, bad year for me. i got out of a relationship of five years; we were financially co-dependent on each other and i had to figure out how to be on my own financially and emotionally. on top of that, my dad was diagnosed with cancer. he was the main breadwinner of the family; we love our dad and we were also scared for the whole family, too. thankfully he got better, but it made me think, what if in the future something were to happen again to my family and i dont have an emergency fund? i cant even help my dad financially right now because im still in this deep hole of debt. i knew i needed to get rid of the debt so that i could have savings to take care of my family.thats when garrido finally took a long hard look at her finances and began researching her options.i thought, why didnt i research this before? they always say the teacher finally appears when youre ready, she says. i started picking peoples brains; i found sofi in march of 2015 because one of my student loans was at 10.5% interest rate. i wasnt paying attention to that, but that was eating up most of my minimum payment. no wonder i wasnt making any progress! so i refinanced and i got myself down to 6%.\"driving an uber: a lesson in money managementnow that her loans were at a more manageable rate, garrido decided that she needed another source of income to make a significant impact on her debt, and she signed on to be a ride-share driver with side car and uber.working a side hustle, on top of her full-time job, wasnt easy. i would work from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., alternate between taking a nap and going to the gym for 30 minutes, then get in my car and work until midnight. i set a stop time of midnight for my own sanity and safety and because i wanted to get enough sleep. i would occasionally work past midnight if i didnt meet my goal for the night. i would do one or two more rides, because after midnight is when surge pricing happens and i would get more money.her goal for each weeknight was $50, and on the weekends at least $100; on busy nights, she would come home with a couple hundred extra dollars in her pocket.\"once i got momentum i started really budgeting my money,\" says garrido. \"i knew if something big was to happen, i was finally preparing for it versus just waiting and reacting.at first, garrido was embarrassed of having to pick up a side hustle to pay her bills, but one particular set of passengers changed her mindset. i was in a shady area and i was a little nervous who i was going to pick up and it turned out they were college kids from ucla. the next thing you know were cheering and doing our school chant in the car. they asked me if this was what i did for a living. i told them i just do it on the side to pay off my student loans and they all agreed they were going to have to have a side job too, they totally got why i was doing it, she recalls. that made me feel better. these kids understood what i was going through. you have shame going through something like this, you dont want to tell anybody you have to take on a side job. but you have to humble yourself and know that youre doing what you have to do.managing the second income  and handling it responsibly  was a huge learning opportunity. i worked for almost a year. i was preparing for taxes, so i put 25 percent away. thankfully my corporate job was taking a lot of taxes out so by tax time i was able to take that couple thousand dollars id saved on the side and put it towards my student loans, she says. there were times when i made a payment of $3000 at once. it was always about preparation. it definitely gave me the discipline and the focus and the hustle to do it, because i was more focused on my money and making that extra income. it made me more conscious. that first year gave me the muscle to really be disciplined to pay off the rest of my loans.using the mental shift to make a lifestyle changeafter a year, garrido stopped driving and applied her newfound discipline to meticulously budgeting.it was total focus and sacrifice. i knew i didnt have that extra side hustle so i was looking at other little things: surveys, looking for discounts and promo codes when shopping, all the little things that can add up. i also got a raise at work, which bumped up my income, she says. people need to remember that as you get new jobs or yearly increases, if youre in a rut like i was, you shouldnt be using that to up your lifestyle, you should put the extra towards your debt.her other sacrifices? she stopped taking major vacations  opting for affordable trips like hiking. (my goal was to never have my vacations follow me, she says.) at one point, garrido had four roommates to keep rent on her san diego apartment low. she stopped shopping, and instead borrowed clothes from friends for big events, and took a hard look at her lifestyle: i gave up my disneyland pass, stopped eating out all the time like i used to do, stuff that was normal to my friends and i because it was our lifestyle. it was about being conscious of: if i dont go out tonight, i can do a little bit more later.all of the sacrifices allowed her to dump any extra money into her loan payments. i was doing an average of $1200 a month, my minimum was about $500, so i was doubling it. i think the most i ever put in was $3500 in a month. sometimes im still mind blown: i put that much money into my loans?! but i was budgeting per paycheck and after all of my expenses, i put it all towards the loans. it added up. once you pay a little bit, the interest goes down, so it was really encouraging to see the bigger amount start going towards the loan itself. there were times i thought, dang! with $68,000 i could have had a down payment on a house, but at the same time, if i hadnt done this i wouldnt have the consciousness to know that i could do it. before, i wouldve thought $68,000? i can never pay that off. but now im like i just paid off $68,000! i can definitely save up that much. i have a lot more hopes and dreams knowing that i have that power.now that garrido has dug herself out from under debt, she has some new financial goals in place. on the top of the list is building up that emergency fund. she also plans to have a debt-free wedding and travel before having kids. finally, she plans to start saving for children now. we want to afford our future children and the opportunities thy want and i dont want them to have student loans, says garrido. were going to start saving for the kids now, so that by the time theyre 18 they will have some funds to go to school. i learned my lesson, and i dont want my kids to go through the same thing.her advice to others? there is a way; you just have to pay attention. be conscious of your money and what youre spending. people will say, oh, its only a starbucks coffee. but every day youre buying that coffee and that adds up. prepare, be conscious of whats coming up and plan accordingly and everything will fall into place.simple money hacks thatll help you savethe 2-minute rule i use to effortlessly manage my money5 apps that can make your financial life easier todaymoney hacks thatll help you save (and keep you safe)how to save enough money for a summer vacation, starting nowwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

if youre turning to smoothies as part of your strategy to lose weight or take your healthy eating up a notch, your menu may need a little attention. done right, smoothies can make nutritious sense, packing satisfying ingredients along with fiber, vitamins, minerals and other health-protecting substances. but even some of the most healthful smoothie ingredients can add up to a lot of calories and therefore, interfere with your weight loss goals  or worse, lead to unintentional weight gain. read on to find out if youre making some common smoothie mistakes, discover how to build the best smoothie and find nutritionist-approved recipes to get your smoothie-making up to speed.smoothie mistakes to avoidwhether blending a smoothie or smoothie bowl, here are some common traps youll want to avoid.you sip your smoothie with breakfast. if your smoothie contains protein powder, greek yogurt, nut butters, and the like, theres a good chance it contains enough calories to replace your meal rather than accompany it. if you enjoy a smoothie alongside your morning eats, you may want to reconsider your smoothie recipe to lighten your breakfast calorie load.you add too much fruit. though fruit is a healthy smoothie ingredient, you can get too much of a good thing i n the form of calories and carbs. a general rule of thumb is to stick to around 1 cup of fruit per smoothie. thats about a serving. putting a few different fruits in your blender can easily add up to much more so if youre mixing fruits, keep an eye on the total amount.youre not keeping tabs on added sweeteners. be it maple syrup, honey, agave, coconut sugar, or any other form of added sugar, too much sweetener is where many smoothies go astray. other added sugars may come in the form of plant-based milks (sometimes even in original varieties) and flavored yogurts. since fruit is naturally sweet, see if you can get by with just a hint of added sugar, if any.youre adding too many boosters. nut butters, chia seeds, and protein powders can all be great smoothie additions, but like other smoothie ingredients, its possible to go overboard. a tablespoon of either peanut or almond butter has about 100 calories; protein powders often start in the 100-calorie range; and chia, flax, or hemp seeds get you to the 100-calorie mark in two or three tablespoons. if you arent careful with your add-ins, the calories can add up quickly.how to blend the best smoothiethough calorie needs vary depending on age, weight, hormones, activity levels, and more, as a rule of thumb, most of us do well with snacks that contain fewer than 200 calories; a 300- to 450-calorie breakfast would cover most adults needs. heres how to get the most nutrition without driving the calories sky high.fruit. start with 1 cup fresh or frozen fruit. some great fruit bases include strawberries, blueberries, mangoes, bananas, pineapple, cherries and peaches.veggie. if you dont mind the green color, adding a handful of spinach or kale is a good way to bring more antioxidants to your drink. these greens also give your smoothie more body, but the flavor from the small serving is virtually undetectable when paired with fruit.protein. i usually go for about  to 1 cup plain, greek yogurt, which has up to 24 g of this hunger-busting nutrient. you could also use cottage cheese, silken tofu, or legumes, like chickpeas. another way to go is to use protein powder. if youre going this route, keep an eye on the labels and watch out for added or artificial sweeteners. youll also want to take note of the protein source, especially if youre following certain dietary restrictions (like avoiding dairy or soy). popular options include whey protein and pea protein, but you can also find almond protein, peanut protein, hemp protein, egg white protein, soy protein, brown rice protein, and others. when it comes to powders, simple ingredient lists are best. for example, naked nutritions naked whey lists just one ingredient: whey protein concentrate.plant-based fat. nut butters, seeds (like chia, hemp or ground flax seeds), and avocados can make your smoothie extra filling, and depending on which one you choose, may bring heart-protecting omega-3 fatty acids or monounsaturated fats. but these additions also drive the calories up. stick to about a tablespoon of seeds or nut butters or about a quarter of an avocado to avoid this issue.liquid: your choices include milk, non-dairy milk, coconut water, iced coffee or tea, and juice. if you want to punch up the protein, go for milk or pea protein milk, which contain 8 to 10 grams per cup. if youre getting ample protein from another source, coconut water or almond milk are lighter ways to go. a splash of juice is a great way to add sweetness to your smoothie, but if youre going this route, be mindful of other sweeteners.flavor boosters: flavorful sprinkles include cocoa powder, cinnamon, turmeric, ginger, and unsweetened matcha powder. these bring more complexity to your smoothie and can also bring other health benefits.grains. some people like the addition of oats or other fiber-rich grains in their smoothies. in addition to providing more body, youll get all the benefits of whole grains when you add them to your smoothie mixture or bowl.ice. i like to toss a handful of ice cubes in the blender because ice adds more volume (read: bigger smoothie), which makes my sips last longer. the cold sips also take more time to drink. the more you linger over your smoothie (or any other meal or snack), the more memorable, satisfying, and enjoyable it will be.healthy smoothie recipesif you dont want to use the above formula to guide your smoothie-making, try some of these recipes. note that the serving sizes vary so youll want to keep an eye on that and adjust accordingly, depending on whether your smoothie is a snack, a meal or a side sip.blackberry banana lime smoothieblackberry and lime make a refreshing and antioxidant-rich combo, while banana (a smoothie staple) keeps it full-bodied. the mixture of protein and milk bring a satisfying dose of protein to this am meal.peach protein smoothie bowlsometimes its satisfying to eat with a spoon, which is where smoothie bowls come into play. plus, crunchy toppings bring another appetizing dimension.green avocado peach smoothieyou can use fresh or frozen peaches in this delectable smoothie, which gets its creaminess from the avocado. this treat would be a great between-meal tide-me-over thats rich in fruits and veggies to help you meet your daily needs.orange mango ginger smoothie this smoothie recipe has loads of flavor from fresh ginger and ground turmeric, along with the mango, orange, cucumber, and celery. since its light on protein, you may want to consider this a snack or experiment with your protein of choice.strawberry cheesecake smoothie strawberry cheesecake? yes, please! this decadent smoothie has just 5 good-for-you ingredients to get your day off to a great start.orange strawberry squash smoothiethis two-serving sipper is a delicious way to help you reach your daily fruit and veggie requirements. like many smoothies, you could blend it into a drink or a smoothie bowl. if you want to make more of a meal out of it, add protein-rich enhancers, like protein powder or greek yogurt.toasted coconut wild blueberry smoothie bowlthis smoothie bowl packs 27 g of protein to power you through a long morning. plus, wild blueberries are packed with antioxidants and fiber.gut-healthy berry smoothieif a non-dairy smoothie is more your style, this one, with plant-based protein powder, makes a delicious and filling meal.stacked blueberry smoothiecottage cheese provides the protein in this layered drink. its made parfait-style so the smoothie and cottage cheese are kept separateperfect for days when you want to dig in with a spoon.creamy strawberry milkfor the kids, or the kid in you, why not whirl up a little strawberry milk? unlike the one you may have grown up on, this snack gets its pink color and juicy flavors from actual strawberries.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

in my days working in an office, i was always most content when i worked by a window. it wasnt the view i loved (usually all i could see was the building across the street or a garbage-cluttered alley); it was the natural light. i recall in the colder months in new york, when i was experiencing minor flare-ups of seasonal affective disorder (unaware i even had it), i practically worshipped my little corner of a window. when, one day my boss decided to move everyone around, i lost that little piece of glass that had come to mean so much to me. it always seemed obvious as to why i was bummed; after all, who doesnt like a window? but new research highlights the science behind the benefits: natural light can actually boost our wellbeing and our productivity.the daylight and workplace study conducted by cornell universitys dr. alan hedge, a professor in the department of design and environmental analysis, and commissioned by view dynamic glass, found that workers seated by a window that optimized natural light reported an 84 percent drop in symptoms of eyestrain, headaches and blurred vision  all symptoms associated with computer vision syndrome (aka, digital eye strain) caused by prolonged screen use. the study also found that these workers noted a two percent boost in productivity, and a 10 percent decrease in drowsiness. the research focused on workers who are in buildings that use views auto-tinted smart windows, making the case that what your window is made of is a distinguishing factor, but the essential point stands: we thrive in natural light, a difficult fact when you consider that the average american spends 90 percent of their time indoors.this research may be new, but science has long understood the value of natural light on workers healthdr. ashwini nadkarni, an associate psychiatrist and an instructor at harvard medical school, says that the effects of light on work productivity were first noted in an experiment conducted in the mid-20th century, called the hawthorne effect.in this experiment, two groups of workers in factory were studied to determine whether light affected productivity, says dr. nadkarni. the group that had greater illumination was found to be more productive in terms of work effort and task completion.more light has been shed on the issue in recent years, including a 2014 study published in the journal of clinical sleep medicine which concluded that architectural design of office environments should place more emphasis on sufficient daylight exposure of the workers in order to promote office workers health and wellbeing.it makes perfect sense on a neuropsychiatric level, nadkarni reasons, because of the role the sun plays in our circadian rhythms and our sleep cycles. natural light helps to regulate our sleep-wake cycles, improves amount and quality of sleep  which in turn ensures that circulating levels of stress hormone are down, our glucose metabolism is normal and our fatigue levels are controlled. so performance and concentration improves.the average office building wasnt built with light in mind, but were learningand yet, most office buildings werent built with the consideration of natural light; in fact, many were designed to block it. when i started researching office lighting over 30 years ago, we were only concerned visibility, not the importance of daylight, which was seen as being uncontrollable because of heat and glare. so buildings were being built without considering daylight exposure, [focusing instead on] artificial light because it was easier to control, dr. hedge says.some employers are starting to pay attention. ocean state job lot, a chain of discount stores, recently added skylights to its distribution lot in north kingstown, rhode island, and is seeing the benefits.as we expanded our distribution center to 1.2 million square feet, we made a conscious decision to include multiple skylights, which provide natural light to many areas throughout the building, says sanna jawo, director of distribution for ocean state job lot. our associates work in three shifts and many arent exposed to natural light throughout the course of the day. the expansion allowed us the flexibility to build-in this natural light source which has made an impact on our associates sense of wellbeing. since the skylights were installed, weve noticed more energy, an uplift in mood and an overall sense of increased happiness while at work.nothing beats natural light, but a light box and eye exercises can helpnot everyone has the benefit of working in a place that implements natural light, and while its true that nothing beats the real thing, there are ways to get a luminous pick-me-up while on the clock.dr. nadkarni recommends investing in a light therapy box (often used to treat sad), which you can use before and/or after work.a light therapy box provides bright light that simulates natural light from the outdoors, says nakdkarni. these light boxes usually provide about 10000 lux light intensity and are meant to be used in a daily session of about 20 to 30 minutes per day.you should also consider implementing daily eye exercises into your routine to help combat digital eye strain. the vision council recommends the 20-20-20 rule: every 20 minutes you look away from your screen for 20 seconds and focus on something 20 feet away. you should also talk with your optometrist as they may be able to recommend more depending on your situation.as for getting more sunshine in your workday, well, you may have a say in that, too, simply by making an effort to be outside more  even if that means getting off the train a stop early, or parking a bit out of the way. better yet, use your bodys need for light as an excuse to have some midday time to yourself, however brief, as according to dr. nadkarni, the ideal thing to do is simply take a break during work and take a walk outside.more office productivity hackswhy a desk plant can make you more productivegmail extensions that can boost your productivitybrown bag lunch recipes that boost your moodhow to say no to endless meetingswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.

approximately 133 billion pounds of food  or $161 billion worth of food  is wasted each year in the united states.you may not think you personally are having much of an impact, but take a closer look at your garbage: orange peels, broccoli stalks, the carcass of the rotisserie chicken you bought for dinner. yes, all of those things count.you already know that excess food can be donated to a local food bank (use the tool at feeding america to find a pantry near you). but what about making use of all of those food scraps that end up in the trash? composting is an obvious and great place to start. but it turns out you can use scraps  like those citrus peels, melon rinds and cauliflower stems youd normally toss  to whip up delightfully unique and nutritious recipes. these tips will help you waste less of the foods you cook with and lower your grocery bill, too.add pulp to muffinswhen squeezing juice in my juicer, i add the pulp to homemade muffins to boost the fiber and natural sweetness, says abbey sharp, rd, a dietitian in toronto and author of the the mindful glow cookbook. heres how to do it: add 1 cup of pulp per 1  cups of flour to your favorite muffin recipe.dont forget the stalksyou can do so much with broccoli and cauliflower stalks. we cut off the stalks and slice them into chips for crudit, say tammy lakatos shames, rdn, cft and lyssie lakatos, rdn, cft, co-authors of the nutrition twins veggie cure. the stalks contain more fiber than the florets, so they make a delicious, crunchy and creative alternative to traditional veggies for dipping. some more ideas: spiralize them into noodles, shred them into a slaw or process them into veggie nuggets.make use of melon rindyou might think that the fruit of the watermelon is the best part. but the rind is totally edible and packs a nutritious punch, delivering immunity-helping vitamin c and other nutrients. use the rind by cutting it into chunks or shredding it and adding to stir fries, suggests holley grainger, ms, rd, a dietitian in birmingham, alabama. you can also eat it as is or pickle it for later use (pickled rinds add an unexpected zing to salads!).blend fruit scraps into smoothiesi like to make smoothie bags using fruit scraps, says frances largeman-roth, rdn, a dietitian in brooklyn, new york, and author of eating in color. for example, if im cutting up a pineapple or melon for a fruit salad, there are always some odd bits left over. ill throw these into a freezer bag, which locks in the fruits nutrients, and add a banana and some greens and pop it in the freezer. when its smoothie time, toss the contents of the bag into a high-speed blender, and add nut butter and milk or juice. voila! says largeman-roth. food waste is reduced, and my healthy smoothie work is already done for me.bake with near-spoiled fruitsim an avid baker, and i often lean on the fruits in my fridge that are past their prime to toss into breads, cakes, muffins and more, says regan jones, rd, a podcaster and blogger at this unmillennial life. citrus does an especially nice job of livening up baked goods. and even choices like berries can make a fun addition to a pan of brownies. brown bananas are more sugary than their fresher counterparts and also do a great job of naturally sweetening desserts, such as a vegan chocolate pudding.turn bruised apples into a compoteweve all crossed paths with an apple that looks like it isnt worth eating. but think twice before you toss it. apples never get wasted at my house, says jones, who advises chopping up any part that isnt badly bruised and tossing with a pinch of cinnamon and the slightest bit of brown sugar. then add a little water, and simmer in a saucepan until thick, she says. youve got a warm fruit topping for oatmeal or the perfect side to grilled meat. you can also make a mean applesauce with bruised apples.add citrus peels to everythingsnacking on an orange or slicing a lemon to flavor water? zest the peels. if you dont have an immediate use for citrus zest, store it in the freezer in a zip-top bag. rather than tossing citrus peels, we use them in smoothies and grated over salads and on sandwiches and cooked grains for a refreshing zest that packs in antioxidants and fiber, say lakatos shames and lakatos. you can also process zest into a fruit-based nice cream or use it to top off a yogurt or cottage cheese parfait. the peels contain a lot of nutrients, from vitamin c to disease-fighting phytochemicals, shows a study by researchers in india.turn chicken carcass into souprotisserie chickens have been darlings of the prepared-food scene for years, says robin plotkin, rdn, a culinary nutritionist in dallas, texas. so many people throw out the carcass. dont. thats the beautiful beginning of a delicious, flavorful homemade chicken soup. making such a soup is much easier than youd think: fill a stockpot with water, the carcass, carrots, celery, onions, parsley, salt and black pepper, advises plotkin. bubble away for a few hours, and the flavor imparted from the bones is better than any store-bought broth, want precise instructions? try this homemade chicken broth recipe.save the stemstheres nothing wrong with the outer layer of cabbages, lettuces and even cauliflower leaves and carrot skin, says plotkin. same thing goes for stems of herbs, kale and chard. the same vitamins, minerals and fiber you find in the hearts of these veggies can be found in their leaves, stems and stalks. sautee up some of those greens, grill them or shred them into slaws or salads. herb stems make a tasty compound butter.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?the healthier pick: a hot dog or a hamburger?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.

